We certainly have seen signs of very
rapid risk takingaking.
>> The bulls will say there is further room
to go.
>> From a technology and an innovation
standpoint, it is still hard to beat the
US markets. The
>> big picture for the equity markets, it's
about profits, profits, profits.
>> Equities are just focusing on the profit
story. And I do think that there there's
some durability. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday at all-time highs, the
S&P 500 closing above 6,400 for the
first time in market history as
inflation data leaves investors locking
in bets for a September rate card. The
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson joining
the program later this morning making
the push for the Fed to go big.
>> Well, really, when it comes to the Trump
administration, you can expect the ethos
is go big or go home. But he is calling
for the Federal Reserve really signaling
that they should actually cut Jonathan
by 50 basis points in September. He's
highlighting the fact that we had this
weaker than expected labor report. And
then he went on to say, "The real thing
now is to think about is should we get
to 50 basis point because they could
have been cutting in June and July had
they had those revised figures at the
time."
>> So the good news, limited tariff pass
through relative to what was expected.
That can change in the coming months,
but let's work with that for now. The
bad news, the potential for demand
destruction and maybe tighter margins in
corporate America. This is something we
all read repeatedly in yesterday's
research. Evidence building that
companies are tolerating a margin
squeeze. How that develops in the months
to come. absolutely critical.
>> It is critical and there's nowhere else
to really look at how critical this is
than Detroit. Look at what the big auto
companies are telling you. Ford, they're
taking this right down when it comes to
the tariffs. Right now, they are
absorbing it. What does this mean for
car prices in 2026? And that is why
everyone is t looking at the end of the
year and 2026 for potentially this
adjustment and inflation and higher
prices to hit goods.
>> The counterpoint is what does it mean
for the labor market if they have to cut
costs? That's another problem, which is
why we've got to wait for more data.
Early September, another payrolls
report. A week later, another CPI
report. And then we get to that
September meeting. And the pressure is
building on this Fed chair to make a
move.
>> It's building on this Fed chair to make
a move because you see constant calls
even coming from the Treasury Secretary
that they should go big with this 50
basis point cut. We also need to know
whether or not there's going to be if
they don't make the cut, if there's
going to be another dissenter at that
meeting, will Steve Meyer be able to get
confirmed in time to be in that meeting?
And then you have other individuals that
they seem to be throwing in the mix for
Fed chair. Uh potentially they're
signaling if you maybe want to get on
this list and have an interview with the
president to maybe run the Federal
Reserve, you should put your hand up and
and descent at the next meeting. And not
the only thing we need to discuss with
the Treasury Secretary later on this
morning at about 7:30 Eastern time. Also
need to talk about what's going on with
trade. What has happened with trade and
what on earth happened earlier this week
with Nvidia? How did we come up with
this agreement between Nvidia and the
government?
>> This is a great question. It seems to be
potentially just this conversation in
the Oval Office between the president
himself and Jensen Wang. the president
saying, "Well, I want 20% then of those
chips that now I'm allowing you and
giving you the export licenses to go
back into China." And then I think
Jensen Wang ran the numbers in his head
and was like, "Oh, it's a little high,
even though we need billions of dollars
coming from China. How about 15%." And
then that's how the deal was struck.
>> And that's where we are right now.
Alltime highs on the S&P 500. Equity
futures add some weight to the rally up
by 210 of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Jeff Hugh with BMY with
stocks at all-time highs. Janette Low of
Strategus as pressure builds on the Fed
to cut rates. Plus, we'll speak to the
former BLS associate commissioner
Michael Huran as Trump names a new BLS
head. We begin this hour with stocks of
fresh record highs on Fed rate cut
optimism. Jeff Hugh of BMY writing the
following. July CPI figures may not have
generated too much of a surprise, but
the prospect of global stagflation
continues to linger. Jeff joins us now
for more. Jeff, welcome to the program,
sir. Are you seeing evidence that
companies are tolerating margin squeeze
and how do you anticipate that will
develop in the months to come?
>> Well, I think um it's one of those
counterfactual things, right? The fact
that the tariff impact is not showing up
outright in CPI figures or you know well
below what markets were expecting shows
it's being absorbed somewhere and that
clearly is going to be a sign and based
on some of the earnings reports as well
uh that it's being absorbed by
individual companies but they're hoping
that by uh holding down let's just say
the income erosion for households that
can keep demand going because at the end
of the day you need household demand uh
to continue uh to drive earnings higher
as much as the AI based and capex as
well. So I think these factors putting
together uh support that view. Having
said that, look at the BOE, look at the
RBA and let's see what the Fed says. You
know, stagflation still is an issue
globally.
>> So Jeeoff, we've got to understand how
this rebalances in the months to come,
both domestically here in the US and
globally. As you say, the stagflation
prospects in America are well discussed.
What about globally? What is it that you
see globally?
>> Well, let's take the Reserve Bank of
Australia, right? And similar to the
Bank of England, there was a quite a
divergence of views on where the labor
market's heading. And the best
manifestation of that is you're seeing
clear loosening in the labor market. And
we're seeing that in the US as well. Not
enough um jobs growth and compared to
strong cycle. But that is not
translating into softer wages. You look
at median pay as you earn wages in the
UK, 5.7%, you know, yearon year for what
is supposedly a soft growth economy. So
that's where the divergence is. So
you're not seeing labor market softness
translate into weaker wages and that
means people still have spending power
at least those with a job and that will
result in stagflationary outcomes.
>> Jeeoff, when it comes to the CPI
yesterday, services prices still went
up. They propelled what was going on in
core. Can the Fed just ignore that?
I think it's difficult for any central
bank to ignore but once again you can't
prove the counterfactual because if you
let things let's just say run a bit too
much and hold off on easing then you may
end up you know having too tight
conditions you know when uh the cycle
really begins to turn but I look at the
US number services and inflation for
example just above 2%. That's actually
pretty benign. It's more than twice that
level in the UK for example and it's
higher when you look at non-tradables
inflation in in Australia. So the
anglers sphere right now really faces a
services inflation issue, but that just
goes back to the wage issue. Wages the
strongest input into services inflation.
They're still quite robust right now. So
how do you square that circle? A
challenge globally.
>> So are you basically saying that the Fed
doesn't have the all clear in September?
>> I think right now it doesn't have the
all clear. You know, we're certainly um
confident that they can you move later
in the year for December for example.
But we concede right now given what
they've seen with the labor market, some
of the revisions, uh there is um a
strong chance that they will have to act
in uh in September as well. But you
can't prove the counterfactual. And I
think right now, look at what the RBA
did. Look at what the BOE did. So the
BOE was like split down the middle
almost. Uh but they're more willing to
cut than not cut right now just so that
further up ahead towards the end of the
year, they don't want to be caught out.
>> And Jeeoff, look at how the bond market
is responding to it. The bias to reduce
interest rates. Let's focus on America.
Look at the reaction yesterday. yields
lower at the front end of the curve.
Further out along the curve, they start
to bleed a little bit higher. The curve
starts to steepen. Jeeoff, what do you
make of that dynamic?
>> So, our data is showing that short
utilization. So, people are anticipating
some steep in the 7 to 10 year part of
the curve that is really moving. So,
they don't want to go too far out the
curve and international investors, to be
frank, they'd actually come back in and
buy longerdated bonds, right? Because
they're seeing a weaker dollar, they're
seeing higher yields, happy to own that.
uh but you have this uh the seven to 10
year part which is relatively more
liquid. I think that's what based on our
data clients are identifying as the best
part to price in some stagflation risk.
So this is the part we need to watch
really really carefully. So Jeff just to
be clear when you say stagflation risk
and pricing that at the long end of the
curve that's more steepness
>> absolutely so best steeping is a risk we
identified for this year that will
continue and even before we talk about
the fiscal issues but also from the US
side look at where the dollar is as well
we need to talk about pass through
inflation from the dollar not not the
tariff side of things but the fact that
euro dollar is 116 117 going against my
view but just general imports will be
more expensive and at the other side
it's actually loosening financial
conditions for em because you know they
want stable exchange rates, but you're
worried about overvaluations. We saw
Bank of Thailand, for example, you know,
cutting rates of 1 and a.5% uh close,
you know, to the conventional 125 lower
bound for them if you exclude I mean the
COVID period. So that's already becoming
an issue for APAC. No, so maybe they
don't want too weak a dollar either. So
different dynamics coming into play
here.
>> Well, let's just stay on top of foreign
exchange. We're seeing that story play
out again this morning. Euro dollar back
to 11724,
a move of 0.4%. Jeff, what is it about
the data policy mix here state side that
continues to contribute to this dollar
story?
>> Uh, so real rates, it's as simple as
that. So when you have inflation running
where they are right now, but the market
is pricing in Fed easing, then the real
rate trajectory um is going to be
softer, right? So it's going to be, you
know, barely one one and a half%. If you
look at terminal trajectories, I go back
to an extreme case, Thailand. Yes,
they're at 1.5%. Their latest inflation
print negative.7,
right? So that's high real rates in
Europe as well you right now. So you
know Spanish inflation 2.7 is high but
German inflation at target 2%. So that's
flat right now. So I think for to to
offset that Europe really needs to just
you know manage their growth
expectations manage inflation
expectations. So I'm probably a bit out
of consensus here but I think they need
to cut in September as well on the ECB
side just to match where the Fed is
because their export engine they've got
issues right now. Well, Jeeoff, when it
comes to the exchange rate, what's the
line in the sand for the ECB?
>> So, I think they should have passed the
line in the sand, for example, because
in June, their assumptions were anchored
at, I think, 111, 112, that kind of a
level. Where we are right now is beyond
the 75th, probably close to the 90th
percentile of their exchange rate
assumptions. So, in the September
forecast, I'm actually expecting the ECB
um staff projections to highlight next
year they're going to miss targets,
especially um at these levels. So I
think we're well past line in the sand
now.
>> Expecting more rate cuts. Jeff Hugh of
BNY. Jeff, thank you sir with the
latest. That's the view on both Europe
and the United States. Here in America,
the focus on the Federal Reserve. We
continue to expect Fed cuts to resume in
September. That was city yesterday.
Neura, the Fed account in September.
Neil Data, good friend of this program
over at Renmack. September is a lock.
That was the consensus view yesterday
after inflation came in.
>> And we don't even have all the data yet.
You know, the Federal Reserve is going
to come out and say we'd like to see the
totality of data. We still have one more
jobs print and one more CPI print before
the Fed meets and potentially is there
anything in those data points that would
put the Fed off course to what the
market is expecting. What happens if
they don't cut and the market has lined
up basically thinking this is fully
baked in?
>> The Jackson Hole coming up another
opportunity for the Fed chair J power to
set expectations. That's about a week or
so away. The latest story in the market
record highs and up another two of 1% on
the S&P with an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara Anna. Tell Yhara.
>> Good morning, John. President Donald
Trump will take part in a conference
call today with Ukraine President
Vladimir Zalinski and European leaders.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that Zalinski will travel to Berlin for
the call which is being hosted by German
Chancellor Friedrich Mertz. It comes
ahead of Trump's meeting with Russian
President Vladimir Putin on Friday in
Alaska. Meanwhile, AI startup Perplexity
offered to buy Google's Chrome browser
for $34.5 billion. The offer comes as
Google faces US antitrust proceedings
that could require it to sell. The web
browser beared analyst Colin Sebastian
says Perplexity's offer vastly
undervalues the asset. He estimates
Crumb's value is closer to 100 billion.
And Treasury Secretary Scott Besson,
who's joining our program later this
morning, suggested the Fed should be
open to cutting 50 basis points at its
September meeting. Bessant cited the
revised payroll data that showed weaker
job growth and came out 2 days after the
central bank's last meeting. He also
said he was hopeful Trump's pick for the
open Fed board position. Steven Meyn
will be in place in time for that
September meeting. Dr. Bloomberg brief
John
>> Yhara. Thank you. More from Yahara later
on this morning and more from the
Treasury Secretary at 7:30 Eastern time.
Do not miss this conversation just a few
hours away right here on Bloomberg
Surveillance. Up next on the program,
betting on the Fed to go big. This CPI
was completely in line with
expectations. How we've characterized
the the sort of tariff related pass
through. The evidence is that it's
happening, but it's happening slower
than I think many people expected.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Janette Low
of Strategus live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Equity futures positive this morning by
0.2% on the S&P 500. Up again on the
Nasdaq by 0.3 and the rally continues on
the Russell. Small caps up by 0.7. In
the bond market, yield to lower across
the curve. curve. We're down by about
two or three basis points at the front
end of the curve at 370. Yields higher
over the last several days on a 10-year
maturity, just a little bit lower this
morning. Down by three or four basis
points. We're back to 425. Under surface
this morning, betting on the Fed to go
big.
>> The CPI was completely in line with
expectations. How we've characterized
the the sort of tariff related pass
through. The evidence is that it's
happening, but it's happening slower
than I think many people expected.
broader story here that we're still
seeing is that it's very concentrated
within goods. It's happening slowly and
outside of that, you know, inflationary
pressures look very manageable. So I
think for a Federal Reserve that is a
very good sign.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Inflation data leaving the door wide
open for the Fed to cut interest rates
next month. The Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson saying a 50 basis point cut
should be on the table. Bloomberg's Mike
McKe joins us now for more. Mike, good
morning.
>> Good morning John. I think I would put
it that the CPI report maybe unlocked
the door, but it didn't leave it wide
open yet because as you mentioned at the
top of the show, we still have a number
of inflation reports and a jobs report
to come before the Fed's next meeting.
And there are some worrying signs, a
dangerous mix inflation insights, Omare
uh Sharif puts it, because services
inflation is rising and services
inflation is still something the Fed has
to keep in mind. They've got to worry
about that as well as goods inflation.
Uh Omera also points out that of the 75
goods items ranked in the CPI report,
65% of them actually did rise in price
that uh is the highest in 30 years. So
there are some signs that tariffs are
bleeding into the numbers. Overall, you
look at unemployment 4.2%
and inflation running 3% and it's not a
guarantee that you're going to want to
be cutting rates in September. We'll
have to see if the numbers confirm that
when we get to the beginning of the next
month.
>> And Mike, just to build on that, things
can change in the months to come. At the
moment, limited signs of tariff pass
through relative to what was expected.
And a lot of economists are suggesting
that perhaps companies are absorbing
this on margin, but that can change in
the months to come. And Goldman, who
took a lot of stick yesterday from the
president, actually predicting that's
what's going to happen. Mike, I wonder
what you think of this. So they're
saying consumers in the US have absorbed
an estimated 22% of the tariff costs
through June, but their share will rise
to 67%. They said this on American
businesses. They've absorbed around 64%
of the cost of tariffs so far, but their
share will fall to less than 10%. Mike,
how's the Fed going to grapple with the
fact that this could rebalance again in
the months to come?
>> Well, I think they're already looking at
that. some of the Fed officials who even
our voters like Albert Musalam is
talking about that uh and Raphael Bast
is talking about that that we're going
to continue to see uh inflation ramp up
for consumers because prices are going
to go up. Companies were waiting to get
official tariff levels which only went
into effect a week ago and now they can
plan for what they're going to do with
prices and we've seen companies already
starting to do that like Proctor and
Gamble. Prices are going to go up.
Americans are going to pay more uh and
companies are probably going to try to
keep their margins reasonably stable in
order to keep these kind of valuations
in the stock market.
>> Mike, do you sense that a lot of people
in the market are treating this as an
event and policy makers are thinking
about it as a process?
>> Yes. Uh I I think that's what you're
seeing in the futures market when uh
they're starting to price in maybe two
rate cuts. Not that's not going to
happen. and the Fed is going to be
looking at maybe one and then see how
things play out because it is going to
be a process for them. They don't have
to cut rates right now. That's the
argument that even some members who are
looking for a rate cut have made because
uh inflation is still high, still above
their target.
>> Mike McKe, we'll touch base with you a
little bit later this morning. Thank
you, sir. Janette Low of Strategus a bad
company. The team over there writing the
following debate now is not about
whether to cut rates in September, but
by how much. Janette joins us now for
more. Janette, welcome to the program.
Also a big question about who's going to
be on the committee by the time we get
to the middle of September and whether
Steven can be confirmed by then. What
are you telling clients about the
prospects of that happening?
>> Yeah, I mean, so this is something
that's kind of interesting because we
think that the Trump administration
would definitely like him to be on the
Fed board before the September meeting.
And the question also is, do we want do
they want him on the board before
September 12th when the dot plots and
the forecasts have to be submitted? So,
if the Senate's not coming back until
September 2nd, we've looked at, you
know, prior cabinet appointees early on
in this Trump administration as well as
uh Merin's uh appointment earlier this
year to the Council of Economic
Adviserss. And in general, it takes
about 13 days for a cabinet member to be
appointed. So if the Senate comes back
on September 2nd, that does give enough
time for him to be on the Fed board by
the September 16th, 17th meeting, but it
may not put give him enough time to be
in in time for September 12th. So that
might mean that the Senate Banking
Committee has to come in earlier to get
this confirmation process moving to at
least hold the hearing in advance so
they can start moving to a committee
vote when they come back officially from
recess and then move to the Senate
floor.
>> Janette, how likely is that that they're
going to move this quickly? You know, I
think it's might depend on whether or
not there's pressure coming from the
Trump administration if he asks them to
treat this like a early cabinet member
um early on in the administration.
Obviously, Marco Rubio was, you know,
confirmed quite quickly with only I
think 5 days. Um so, it's going to
depend if there's some pressure there to
actually get this moving since obviously
it's not usual for uh members to be
called back into recess, called back
from recess early. But I think that's
where there's going to have to be that
pressure point is whether or not that
occurs to get the Senate to actually
move and try to advance this a little
bit more quickly.
>> And when it comes to Steve Meyer, he has
the benefit of already going through
this process. What's the likelihood of
EJ Anton getting confirmed to run BLS?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think that there is
probably going to be, you know,
difference to the administration about
getting his appointees in place. we
haven't really seen any major push back
um significantly um from a few Trump
nominees overall. Um and I think the
other thing to kind of watch too with
the Fed appointment is watch the a
senator like a Tim Tillis Tom Tillis and
see if he might actually start to raise
some questions. Does he also, you know,
have a a no vote in committee that could
slow down the process? I think that's
something else to kind of watch out for.
But I think if in terms of the BLS
appointee, there's going to be an effort
to try to get his appointees to um the
positions that's obviously been a fight
within the Republicans and the Democrats
in the Senate and whether or not they
should have abandoned recess in the
first place because there's been such a
lag in getting some of these nominees
confirmed. When it comes to Anton
though, there's been a lot of push back
in conservative economic circles about
his nomination. And when you look at
who's on the Senate Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions, it's
some Republicans where he cannot lose a
single vote that haven't had a problem
with voicing their concerns with the
Trump administration. I'm thinking of
Bill Cassidy, Ron Paul, Susan Collins,
Lisa Marcowski. Do you think he really
can get out of committee?
>> Well, I think obviously, as we've seen
in the past, what happens in the hearing
is most important. So, if there is
information that comes up in the
hearing, that could change how those
senators view the the nominee and their
ultimate vote on the decision. But, as
we've seen in the past, some of these
same senators have had issues with prior
Trump nominees, but then when push comes
to shove, they actually do vote them
through committee and they do vote them
through on the floor. So, I think the
hearing will be quite instructive. Um,
but it's always something to kind of
keep in mind. Given even conservative
economists think this individual is
highly biased and politicized, are
clients telling you that they're
concerned about the accuracy of the data
going forward?
>> I think this is starting to become a
conversation. Um, we're starting to hear
some questions about whether or not
there could be some politicization
coming now with the numbers and whether
or not people can feel like they can
trust the numbers as much. It's not an
overt concern at this point, but I think
that that's obviously going to be
something that's going to be in the back
of investors minds just thinking about
whether or not there is some option
going down the road and now that we've
had this argument come up with the past
uh BLS commissioner and with the past
jobs data whether or not there could be
some sort of either manipulation or the
ability to put someone in there who
could have a a sway on the data.
>> If I could just jump in, forgive me.
When you engage with clients, are they
worried about this? Is this something
that comes up repeatedly or something
they're comfortable with at the moment?
>> At the moment, I think it's not a
significant concern. I think obviously
how things play out over the next couple
of months will make will have a bigger
impact, but of course you are hearing
questions just about whether the process
might have a change now that we're
seeing some movement, we're seeing a
shakeup at the BLS, things of that
nature. Obviously, there are also some
clients who think that, you know, some
reform is necessary. So I think that
there's also kind of like let's do a
little bit of a wait and see approach to
this and see what might happen as this
new individual comes in.
>> Janette, thank you. Appreciate your time
as always. Janet Lo there a strategist a
bad company. We'll talk more about the
BLS in just a moment. There are some
people who think that things need to
change. How much they need to change and
who needs to change them. Uh very
different things.
>> Yeah, that's the big question.
Basically, the Trump administration has
done a good job in the sense of changing
the narrative. There's been a ton of
push back within conservative economic
circles that this person should just not
be running the BLS. Highly politicized.
He was basically brought up by Steve
Bannon and the president went with it.
But they've managed to change the
conversation. Well, actually, maybe we
need to look into what actually is going
on with the statistitians and how can we
get better data so we don't have massive
revisions
>> confirmation. Is it going to be hard?
>> I think it's going to be hard. I don't
know why everyone thinks this is going
to be smooth sailing when you look at
some of the members of the on the
committee that he cannot lose a single
Republican vote. These are people who've
had no problems in the past voicing
their concerns up against the Trump
administration. But then people will
push back on me and say there were a lot
of people who had issues with RFK. There
was some questions about um Pete Hegath
and these were individuals that the
president was still able to get through.
So, it depends, I think, how much
senators and the Trump administration
are willing to fight over this position
that, Jonathan, most people in
Washington never pay attention to or
care about.
>> Coming up on the program, we'll continue
the conversation. We'll catch up with
the former BLS associate commissioner,
Michael Huran, as the accuracy of the
monthly payrolls report comes under
greater scrutiny over the past few
weeks. Plus, we'll touch base with Danny
with your morning movers and a
disappointment in the AI space. Corewave
is down by close to 10% in the
pre-market. live from New York City this
morning. Good morning to you all. You're
watching Blimby TV.
[Music]
Solid gains in yesterday's session. We
add to them this morning. Up another 210
of 1% on the S&P 500. on the NASDAQ 100
up by 0.26 on the Russell up by 0.6 with
3 hours away from the opening power with
your morning movers. Here's Danny. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. Some movers to get through
this morning for earnings. We had core
reporting after the bell yesterday
falling almost 10% this morning. They
talked about really robust AI demand.
The problem for them is margin pressure.
They are spending a whole lot. Things
like acquisitions, beefing up data
centers. It meant that their costs were
higher than expected and that sent
shares lower. Meanwhile, Circle those
shares also falling. This is the stable
coin issuer shares falling 4% this
morning. The company and some
shareholders including the CEO giving an
offering of 10 million shares. It's odd
because they only IPOed 2 months ago.
Usually there's a lockup period, but
when stocks gain enough since the IPO,
that lockup period can be a little bit
funible and shares are up more than 400%
since they IPOed. Finally, Cava also
reporting earnings for them. It was a
cut to their outlook at a decline of
24%. If this sticks throughout the day,
it'll be the worst single day for Cava
on record. The CEO saying that they're
more headwinds versus last year that the
consumer is less ebulent. The question
is, is this a wider consumer trend of
some weakness with some of the other
fast casuals like Chipotle and Sweet
Green also giving less than enthusiastic
earnings? John,
>> Danny, appreciate the update. Thank you.
That stock getting hammered. It's down
24% in the pre-market. As Danny
suggested, it's not just Carver, it's
Sweet Green, it's other companies, too.
>> And Neil Doto yesterday put out a note
and saying, "These are one of the places
where you see a lot of people in Midtown
Manhattan go and get lunch." I wonder if
they're staying at their desk or they're
not going out and getting lunch or
potentially more people are starting to
work from home again remains to be seen.
>> Besides tighter margins, demand
destruction, small signs, but starting
to build. On our radar this morning, our
top story, Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson dismissing the possibility that
Chinese investments in the US could be
part of a trade deal. Besson saying
quote my sense is no citing the need to
reshore critical industries away from
the country.
>> He has consistently said similar to what
actually Biden administration officials
would say we want to derisk from China
not decouple but that doesn't mean that
they want Chinese money flowing into the
United States especially when it comes
to some of these critical industries.
This is why China is so different than
any other trade deal this president is
going to strike. when it comes to other
trading partners, he wants to see
investment in the United States. But
we're talking about allies, the European
Union, the United Kingdom, Japan, South
Korea, Switzerland, they're still
dealing with. Not when it comes to
China. This is a completely different
ballgame.
>> This is a very strange dynamic. And the
Treasury Secretary, I think, has
articulated and framed the situation
quite well. You have a situation where
China has historically over the last
several years, the last decade for that
matter, been the biggest trade partner,
one of of the United States. At the same
time, they are the biggest military
competitor of the United States. This is
a different situation. It's not the same
as the relationship with Japan several
decades ago. This one is critically
different.
>> Critically different and still
intertwined though. And I think really
you can see that when it comes to the
rare earths. US military and our defense
industrial complex matters on how
quickly we can get those rare earth
magnets. And right now China owns that
market. So for the US military also to
derisk from China. We need to make sure
the United States needs to make sure
they're getting rare earths elsewhere.
That's the latest on trade, the latest
on Goldman. President Trump calling out
Goldman Sach CEO David Solomon saying
the bank made quote a bad prediction
about the impact of tariffs on markets.
His comments coming after Goldman
economist published a note in the last
week saying consumers will bear the
brunt of tariff costs.
>> So the president clearly didn't like
this note coming from Yan Hatias who has
been their chief economist since 2011.
And Jonathan, we've been talking about
this note all week. Basically what the
economists at Goldman are saying is that
the US consumer has only so far absorbed
22% of tariff costs but that share will
likely rise to 67% by October if the
later tar later tariffs have the same
impact over time as the earlier tariffs.
So basically the consumer is going to
get hit with a bigger bill later in the
year and the president certainly didn't
want to hear this.
>> This is a forecast and by definition as
a great friend of mine Steve Major over
the years would always tell me a
forecast cannot be wrong. Basically,
this is a forecast for later on in the
year. They're right so far in that at
the moment, if you look at the data
yesterday, it looks like companies are
absorbing this through margin, but
what's Goldman is essentially saying,
communicating to clients at the moment
is that's going to change in the months
to come. Now, you can disagree with
that, but that's the call.
>> Basically, Goldman is saying this is the
state of play right now, but at some
point it is going to hit companies. They
are going to crack and they're under
incredible incredible margin pressure
and they're going to have to pass this
along. I still go back to what Ford is
doing. We haven't seen the uptick in
auto prices. Of course not. They're
holding on to that right now. They're
absorbing that absorbing that tariff
impact. But what's going to happen when
they announce new cars in the fall and
they hit the market in 2026? Prices are
set to go up.
>> Brutal for Solomon and foras.
>> Yeah. Saying he should be get back to
DJ.
>> He said he should focus on being a DJ.
You know, there's always going to be
some sort of I think mocking when it
comes to the president. Um but the crux
of the issue he had had to do with
tariffs. But then he couldn't help
himself. think because you know David
Sullivan you know DJs once in a while I
think in the
>> Hampton the lesson here is don't give it
any oxygen and just try and ignore it
for a while and hope it goes away. Let's
get to the latest on tech. I think this
came from the Wall Street Journal in the
past 24 hours. AI startup Plexity making
an offer to acquire Google's Chrome
browser for $34.5 billion. The move
coming as Google faces antitrust
proceedings that could require it to
sell the web browser. Guess who? Open
AAI has also express interest in buying
it. Okay, so when it comes to
Perplexity, shoot your shot. As one of
the producers said to me this morning,
I'm calling it a Hail Mary. Obviously,
no one thinks that perplexity is going
to be able to buy Chrome. First off,
they don't even have the money for it.
Um, but they are getting ahead of what
Judge Meta is set to come down with,
which is basically remedies for Google
because they think Google is
monopolizing this market. Now, Google,
Alphabet, they say that they are going
to push this back for the courts. So,
this could take years, but you do
probably see a lot of sharks wanting to
circle Google Chrome because of what is
happening right now at the DOJ.
>> Watch this space. Let's stick with
Washington with a different story.
President Trump's pick to lead the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. EJ Anthony
suggesting the agency should suspend its
monthly jobs reports. The former BLS
associate commissioner, Michael Higan,
writing, "Suspending the current
employment statistics has very serious
implications." Michael joins us now for
more. Michael, welcome to the program
and thanks for making some time for us
this morning. We appreciate it. Let's
just start with a question I think a lot
of people ask from the outside looking
into what happens on Wall Street and
what happens at the BLS. Why the massive
revisions? Why the massive revisions and
why is this data so prone to revisions
all the time? Can you walk us through
the process and why that's the case?
>> Sure.
>> Well, so first of all, the numbers that
come in um from establishments, the
bureau gives uh firms three months to
report. So there is a first, a second,
and a third closing. So that's a natural
part of the process. Uh second, um
there's seasonal adjustment. With the
arrival of new information each month,
there's uh the bureau does a seasonal
adjustment on those numbers, and that's
another source of revision. Now, in this
particular case, yes, the revisions the
revisions were large. Um the May
numbers, for example, went from 144,000
down to 19,000 and the June numbers went
from 147,000 down to 14. But this is not
necessarily uh unusual at various points
in the business cycle. And one of the
points I'd like to make is that if you
go back to September 2008, um we had
some pretty big changes that occurred in
in that particular uh period in
September with the first closing. Uh it
was remember that was the the beginning
of the great recession uh there was a
decline in payroll employments of uh
159,000. The next month in the second
closing that came in at 200 a -284 and
with the third closing it came in at a
negative 401. So to me part of the issue
here is not the size of the revisions.
It's the fact that revisions do happen.
It's what do the size of these revisions
represent about the economy? Are we at a
shifting point in the economy in terms
of the labor market being weak? And I
think there is a lot of evidence to
suggest in the last year that there has
been weakness in general in the labor
market except in two sectors, healthcare
uh and social assistance, but a lot of
the other sectors that you look at have
either been negative or growing very
very slowly. So to me the big question
is that uh whether or not the economy is
going to shift and let me just say
overall I worked at the Bureau of Labor
Statistics for 33 years. These numbers
were not manipulated. There's not an
ounce of political motivation at the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. And I don't
care which president assigns or appoints
which commissioner with the folks that I
worked with whether it be Bill Beachch,
Erica Gian or Erica McInterer, they are
dedicated to the basically putting out
the best and highest quality data that
there is and the charges that these uh
data were politically motivated
absolutely not true.
>> So Michael the process that you just
communicated I think was clearly
communicated. I would ask you though
whether you do believe there is a
problem that ultimately needs fixing
whether because they're prone to
revisions that we can somehow inc
improve the process. What would your
reaction to that be?
>> So first of all the bureau and all of
its programs tries to have continuous
innovation. Uh one of the problems that
the bureau has and the statistical
system has in general is that they're
starved for resources. Uh budgets for
this fiscal agencies have been declining
in real terms for many many years.
Despite that, let's take a look at this
particular survey. In this survey, they
have different methods of reporting that
they've introduced over time. So, for
example, they have an electronic data
interchange center where firms can can
report uh very easily in terms of on a
spreadsheet into the EDI center and that
accounts for a greater and greater
percentage of the reports coming in. Um,
a second uh type of reporting that
they've introduced is called web
reporting where firms these are large
firms that have it could they could have
thousands of establishments that they're
reporting for and what they do is they
create a form that allows them to fill
out their form from their own payrolls
and submit it making the process much
much easier for those firms. Now the the
issue I think is in the percent of data
that's collected in the first month, the
second month and the third month. And
one of the things that the bureau has
tried to do is to increase those
percentages over time. And so now
they're up to 70% for the first month
reporting. Um they're up to about 90 91%
for the second month and they get up to
about 95% at the third closing. So one
question that I think is natural is
could we make that first closing
percentage higher? Are there other
innovations, other resources that we
could bring to bear? Um also
>> could you just make the surveys
mandatory?
Well, one of the problems with making
them mandatory is that it then may have
an effect on the quality of the data
because what you uh part of part of part
of what happens when you make them
mandatory is that firms will say all
right I'm going to answer this
particular survey but I'm not going to
ask answer any other one that's not
mandatory. That would be one impact. The
other is some firms will yes okay it's
manager I'm going to answer it but
they're not going to give high quality
data. Is there a way to incentivize some
of these firms to make sure that they
are not late in their responses?
>> Um, well, yes. I mean, I think this is
what the bureau can do in terms of what
they've done in the past is to modernize
data collection and to try to increase
the response rate for the first closing.
Um, it's hard to do if you don't have
resources. I mean, you talk about
incentifying firms. How do you do that?
Um, and what is the, you know, what kind
of resources do you have to do that if
your de, if your budgets for doing all
of your programs are declining in real
terms?
>> Michael, just a final question from us.
How much difference can one individual
make at the BLS? This is a large
organization. You've talked about the
integrity of all the people that work
there. How much difference can one
person make?
>> I think one person can make a big
difference. Um, so for example, um, are
people going to think that, gee, the
commissioner can come in and say, you
know, I don't like those revisions.
Let's make them smaller. I really doubt
that. There's too many people that that
stand behind the data and the
development of the data. I think a new
commissioner could could do things that
are a lot more subtle. um hopefully the
new commissioner to to give this person
a clean a clean slate will come in come
in and say let's look at the various
ways in which we can um improve the data
but if the first move you make is to
suspend the CES that the markets depend
on that the GDP uh for BEA uh depends on
the industry employment levels in order
to do value added uh GDP by industry um
that the JOL data uh which is very
popular. They depend on CES for control
totals in terms of how they produce the
estimates. There'll be no state and
local. So I think yeah, one person can
do a lot of damage and if that first
move is to suspend the CES, I think
that's a really bad move. And in
addition, the suggestion to replace it
with the QCW means that when those data
come out on a quarterly basis, they're
already 6 months old. So, everyone's
going to be going out of their mind
trying to figure out if the economy is
at a at a turning point when the data
unemployment are over half a year old.
>> So, I think there's a lot of things that
the the commissioner could do that could
damage the bureau.
>> We'd love to have this as an ongoing
conversation with you because no doubt
this story is not going away. The former
BLS social commissioner Michael Han
there really thoughtful thoughtful stuff
there.
>> Absolutely. And you can understand from
him the details that go into this and
the fact that he does not think that one
these were politicized reports. They
were touched by the commissioner. He
believes in how the process works. But
what's interesting there is he also is
offering solutions on ways to make the
data better. One of those is getting
resources and making sure there's funds
there at the BLS. Right now there is
pretty much a hiring freeze across the
federal government from the Trump
administration.
>> This conversation will continue in the
next hour. Let's give an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Blimbo brief. Here's Yahihara. Hey,
Yhara.
>> Hi, John. Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu says he won't agree
to a deal to free only some of the
hostages held by Hamas, signaling a
partial ceasefire deal is no longer
possible. Speaking to Israeli television
to Netanyahu said an agreement would
have to meet Israel's terms, including
the dismantling of Hamas and
demilitarization of Gaza. Meanwhile,
global oil markets are on track for a
record surplus next year, according to
the International Energy Agency. Oil
inventories are set to grow at a rate of
2.96 million barrels a day as demand
growth slows to less than half the pace
seen in 2023. The IEA says, saying that,
quote, "Something will have to give for
the market to balance." And a judge has
ruled that Elon Musk will have to face
claims by OpenAI in court that his
attacks on the startup amount to a
years'sl long harassment campaign. It's
the latest twist in a court fight that
has played out since last year when Musk
accused OpenAI of abandoning its
founding purpose as a charity by
accepting billions of dollars in funding
from Microsoft. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yahara in about 30 minutes time. Up
next on the program, the Fed staying on
target. This economy is not going to
spark a huge surge in unemployment. And
I think the basic point is by the end of
the year, we think maybe 4 and a half%
unemployment. We think over 3%
inflation. They're missing their
inflation target by more than
unemployment. Therefore, they shouldn't
be shouldn't be cutting.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with James Agoff
of BMP Parab live from New York. This is
blind bag.
[Music]
Coming into Wednesday, a record highs
added some more weight to it. Up another
0.2% 2% on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ
100, up2% also in the bond market. Six
consecutive days of high yield on a
10-year maturity. That grind continued
through yesterday's session, reversing
some of it this morning. We're down by
three or four basis points on a 10-year
maturity to 42519
at the front end of the curve down 2 to
370. And the suras this morning, the Fed
staying on target. And one of the things
that Jay Pal pointed out is he's not
looking at payroll growth. He's looking
at the unemployment rate. This economy
is not going to spark a huge surge in
unemployment. And I think the basic
point is by the end of the year, we
think maybe 4 and a half% unemployment.
We think over 3% in inflation. They're
missing their inflation target by more
than unemployment. Therefore, they
shouldn't be shouldn't be cutting.
>> That's one view. Here's another. Traders
boosting Fed rate cut bets following the
latest inflation data. James Egooff of
BMP Parabar writing this. Our base case
is a Fed on hold adding the following.
Should the FOMC become convinced that
the unemployment rate is likely to rise
quickly and sharply, we think it would
respond with three consecutive 50 basis
point rate cuts. James joins us now for
more. James, good morning.
>> Good morning. Thanks for being here.
>> Thank you for being here. Long held view
that this Federal Reserve stays on hold.
How finely balanced is that call now?
We've been looking all year for the Fed
to be fighting inflation and managing an
economy that's going through a soft
patching growth through because of high
tariffs and tight immigration policy.
So, this environment doesn't surprise
us. What we saw with the last perils
print was an economy that's a bit less
stable than what we and the Fed we
believe had anticipated and it's
increasing the risk that the economy
might be rearing off into a recession.
If that if we are seeing a cyclical
recession, we think the Fed would
respond with gusto and would switch from
inflation fighting mode to recession
fighting mode. It could cut three
consecutive 50 basis points.
>> It's one data point, one more payroll
report enough to convince you that this
is either a cyclical slowdown or a
structural shift.
>> Well, it wouldn't just be one. So, we'd
have the last one as well, and we'd have
the overall environment, including the
dislocations associated with tariffs. We
think it's a tough call for them, which
is why they haven't made it yet, why
they've been signaling open-mindedness
to shifting their shifting off of hold,
but why they haven't tied their hands to
do so. So, we think they're going to
make a holistic review of the data once
we get to September and make the best
judgment they can.
>> When it comes to the labor market, the
other concern for a lot of economists is
actually the supply and demand picture.
How is that playing into your call?
Well, I think it's important to make a
distinction between a cyclical slowdown,
which is where we see an accumulation of
slack in the labor market and a
structural slowdown in the labor market
that's being driven by a decline in
supply. Um, this year we've seen an a a
crackdown in immigration, and it appears
that that may have resulted in a fewer
people coming to this country and some
people leaving fewer people
participating in the labor market. If
the labor market is slow because there
are fewer people in it and there's no
accumulation of slack, cutting rates
into that doesn't accomplish anything in
our view other than creating more
inflation. So the Fed is going to
struggle to try to to make that
assessment.
>> How testy do you think this next meeting
could be if they do not cut and you have
someone like Steve Meyer there?
>> So we've been we it's possible that we
might see dissents either way. We see
we've several who descent at the last
meeting and we might have one more
joining depending on how confirmation
hearings go. We've also seen some more
stride and talkish voices come out um
indicating that they favor keeping
policy on hold. So, it's possible Powell
will will face a polarized committee
where achieving a consensus a unanimous
outcome may not be possible.
>> The good news came yesterday is that the
relative tariff pass through to goods
inflation relative to what was expected
is rather muted right now. A lot of
people wrote yesterday that that was
evidence that companies were absorbing
the cost associated with tariffs. What's
your assessment of things so far and how
do you expect that balance to shift in
the months to come?
>> What we think matters is not the
absolute level of of inflation that we
get from tariffs, it's how sticky it is.
Our view is that we were going to have
elevated inflation running well into
2026 as the inflation from tariffs
spills over into services. And we saw at
the last print we saw an uptick in core
services inflation where we saw airfares
among other categories that are starting
to tick up. Um and that suggests that
inflation might run hot well through
next year. We think that's not great
news. Um, while it is good news that
businesses are absorbing some of the
tariffs for now, we think ultimately
it's a it's there's a lot of uncertainty
about the timing and we think if it's
not now, it's probably later.
>> The argument that some on the committee
at the Federal Reserve are making right
now, Governor Waller included, is that
you can look through that. It's a
one-off hit. Other arguments might be
that you could see some second round
effects further down the road. What
would you put more emphasis on at the
moment?
>> Well, the committee up to this point is
has come out in the favor of the letter
camp that they're worried about the
second round effects. they haven't
they're not convinced they're going to
happen, but they can't rule them out.
And given the experience we had during
the pandemic and how costly that was,
there's a lot there's a very strong
disinterest in repeating that
experience. That's been the view so far.
The challenge at this point is that it's
going to involve a greater balancing act
between you managing the risk of
entrenched inflation and managing the
risk that you have the labor market
begin to weaken more abruptly.
>> If prices go up, can consumers absorb
it? Uh well, consumers can absorb and
they have been to some extent so far and
that's been part of why the economy has
been going through a soft patch. Um is
is likely to result in a in a in a
softness and growth going forward as
consumers confront higher prices. Uh we
tend to think that with a stable robust
job market with low unemployment and
with easy financial conditions were well
placed to avoid a recession. But it's
it's not a certain it's not a certain
call. There's a lot of uncertainty
around that.
>> As John mentioned at the top, your base
case is an FOMC on hold. How does that
feel when the entire market has baked in
a cut?
>> Ultimately, our role as economists is to
read the data, to read the Fed's
reaction function, and to make our best
assessment. It's not to simply read off
read the Bloomberg screen, tell you what
what the what what Fed funds futures are
telling us. Um, ultimately, the market
has at several points priced in, you
know, intermediate cuts back around
April after liberation day. It is priced
in very low levels of cuts. The market
does move around. The Fed is open-minded
to the idea of easing depending on the
data. And so it makes sense to us that
the market would price in some
probabilistic estimation of further
easing which might be very large um
depending on how the data come out.
>> Just find that you keep talking about
the data I think about five times in
that one response. How dependable is the
data at the moment?
>> Um that we we we think the data is
reliable. We think the data there's no
evidence that there's an integrity issue
with the data. We we are seeing a
multi-deade pattern of uh you know
decline in response rates. you know, a
lack of modernization of the data and
there's there's a possibility that at
turning points in the economy, and we
might be at one, that the data is slow
to show that pivot. And that's one of
the things the Fed has been concerned
about is that the data and the revisions
we saw last month might be telling us
about something that happened some
months ago to the economy. We're only
learning about now. So that there's
opportunities to improve the data to
improve the technical mechanisms by
which it's created and we look forward
to learning more about that.
>> James, appreciate it. Thanks for
dropping by. Zohot there of BMP Parabar
a finally balanced decision going into
September they're looking for on hold at
the moment but that can change with
payrolls in the first week of next month
>> that jobs report coming up next month is
going to be incredibly important for
this FLMC
>> September 5th I believe then a week
later CPI and then about a week later
the Federal Reserve convenes coming up
next the second hour of Blindberg
surveillance with Liz Saunders of charge
swab Libby Cantrol of PIMCO and the US
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson that
conversation about 34 minutes away.
[Music]
>> CPI was completely in line with
expectations.
>> The economy has been kicking along.
Things have been going well.
>> It kind of went to stall speed somewhat.
>> Growth are slowing down. The economy is
going to be slower in the second half of
this year. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to you all.
The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now and your
scores look like this. Record highs to
kick off Wednesday morning. New alltime
highs just around a corner. If we hold
on to these levels, equity futures
positive by 0.2% on the S&P on the
Nasdaq 100 up by 23. Just 30 minutes
away. An important conversation right
here in New York City in the studio
alongside us here on Bloomberg
surveillance. We'll be catching up with
the Treasury Secretary Scott Besson. A
lot of questions for that man right
there.
>> A lot of questions especially since he
already is signaling to the Federal
Reserve that they should be cutting in
September when they meet not by 25 basis
points but going bigger by 50 basis
points. And he says this is because the
revisions show in June and July that
they already should have been cutting
when it comes to the labor market. and
he's going to want to make the point
that the inflation data, what how they
see it was very benign. Yes, we saw an
uptick in services, but their concern
was that tariff impact and we're not
seeing that just yet, Jonathan, play out
when it comes to all the goods.
>> They're raising lots of questions about
whether we can trust the data. That's
going to be a conversation a little bit
later this hour. There might be a new
BLS chief. We've got a pick. We'll see
if it can get confirmed. We just had a
conversation in the previous hour about
the process, the difficulty of
understanding why we see all these
revisions clearly communicated by a
former BLS employee.
>> Yeah. Took us really into the room and
all these statistitians and how they go
about their work and why he and a number
of other economists and people think
that the data is secure and that it's
there there's integrity when it comes to
this data. The question though the Trump
administration has made is they made it
about this one individual who people are
still questioning whether or not he's
going to be able to get Senate
confirmation. There's been a tremendous
amount of push back from conservative
conservative economic circle circles in
Washington DC. The Trump administration
has tried to change the narrative about
well we just don't want as many
revisions. We don't want big revisions.
We need better data. The pro the problem
they might have is the commissioner
actually doesn't touch that data. They
see the report about 2 days before it
goes public. Even though this data is
prone to massive revisions, a lot is
going to hinge on a payroll report that
comes on September 5th. BMP Parabal was
just on the program expecting the Fed to
remain on hold in September. But if you
get another week report, they're looking
for a sequence, not a one-off, but a
sequence of three consecutive 50 basis
point rate cuts from this Fed.
>> That's huge that they would literally go
from the FOMC on hold to then three
consecutive 50 basis point cuts. Not
even the 25 basis point cuts that most
people seem to think that that is really
the base case for the Fed come in
September. The data the next month and
then of course Jay Powell speaking at
Jackson Hole is going to be incredibly
important before that meeting.
>> That conversation with the Treasury
Secretary 7:30 Eastern time. Futures at
the moment doing okay up by 0.2%. Coming
up this hour we'll catch up with Lizanne
Sers of Charles Swap as markets hit
fresh alltime highs. It's Libby Cantrol
of Pimco as rate cut optimism is surging
and the man himself Scott Besson on the
search for the next Fed share. We begin
this hour with stocks climbing after the
latest CPI data leaves the door wide
open for rate cuts. Lizan sold a charge
swab writing the following slightly
hotter services inflation suggests the
possibility the core PC prints will be a
little higher though September is still
clearly on the table for a Federal
Reserve rate cut. Lisanne joins us right
now for more. Lisanne, welcome to the
program. some confidence maybe that
we're seeing limited tariff pass
through, but maybe I think recently some
nerves emerging that perhaps we're
starting to see evidence of demand
destruction. How concerned, Liz, are you
about that?
>> Well, you know, one thing that I think
needs to be pointed out when you look at
what was perceived to be fairly benign
um core goods inflation up only about
one and a quarter% on a year-over-year
basis is what the direction has been. So
many people forget that we were actually
with core goods, we were in deflation
territory as recently as the second half
of last year. So that's a full 3
percentage point more than increase from
where we were at the latter part of last
year where you had core goods in
deflation to the tune of -2%. So you've
gone from -2% to one and change and now
you've got this hook higher on the
services side. So I I think this kind of
data, inflation data, labor market data,
you really need to dig under the surface
to get a true sense of what the the
impact is. As to whether the Fed will
cut, it depends on on the next uh set of
reports. I think the mapping to PCE
suggests you could see a little bit of a
hotter move. That doesn't tend to be as
uh market moving as CPI and PPI, but uh
that's what I'd be keeping an eye on.
>> Lan, as you know, the range of outcomes
is still really really wide. The way
things are right now, they might change
in several months time. We talked a lot.
Michael McKe was on the program earlier
and we were talking about how much
companies were absorbing at the moment
and whether they pass it on in the
months to come or whether they cut
costs. Do you think September is still
too early to draw any firm conclusions?
>> I I I think it is too early. But what I
will say and and this has already been
underway and I think it will continue in
the September and thereafter as it
relates to the Fed. I think you're
you're likely to continue to see a wider
dispersion of perspectives from members
of the Fed. Certainly when they're in
the you know Federal Open mouth
committee mode out there speaking but
even in things like the summary of
economic projections and and
particularly the dots plot you're seeing
that wider array. Uh we we had two
dissents uh with the most recent meeting
the July meeting. I think that that sort
of dissent probability stays relatively
high with a wider range depending on who
the individual is on that committee
expressing their views going forward. So
I think that's kind of the name of the
game at least in the near term.
>> Well, if the tariff impact is mixed
under the surface, when do you think
we'll actually see it fully priced in?
Well, the problem is that this was not,
you know, a lot of people talked about
the inflation uh impact being one-time
in nature, a one-time price level reset.
The problem is there's no one time as it
relates to the implementation of
tariffs. It has been such rifles on off
delays uh tariffs being used as a tool
beyond just raising revenues or
improving the the trade deficit. So, I
think we've got the rolling nature of
this. You know, several years ago, we
talked a lot about rolling recessions
that we didn't think you were going to
see an actual economic recession, but
pockets of weakness at different times.
I think that's manifesting itself in the
inflation data, too. Meaning the rolling
nature of it where you see pockets of
impact on the upside, you maybe get some
some pockets of offset on the downside
as opposed to anything that is one time
in nature. And I think that will also
continue to be the name of the game
because there isn't anything one-time
about how we're getting information on
tariffs and that increasingly makes it
more difficult for companies to map out
a longer term pricing strategy.
>> Well, when it comes to the Fed, do they
even have the luxury of waiting to see
the full impact if the labor market,
Leslanne, is weakening?
>> Uh, that would be the primary reason why
September is on the table. The Fed has
essentially inferred, not that they're
ignoring the inflation side of their
mandate, but the trigger to move back to
easier policy per what they did last
fall is probably more on the labor
market side versus the inflation side,
unless you have a major major spike in
inflation from here. That's precisely
what happened last fall when the Fed did
launch what became only three rate cuts,
but they launched it with a 50 and that
was because of pretty significant
concerns, turned out to be somewhat
unfounded, um, but significant concerns
about the labor market. So the inflation
data is going to be parsed like it
always is, but I think it's the labor
market side of their mandate that will
ultimately be the trigger for what they
do and by how much.
>> Lzanne, let's push some of this
conversation into the equity market.
Record high in the S&P, record high in
the NASDAQ 100 as we kick off Wednesday
morning. Beneath the index, how much
adjustment are you seeing in individual
equities to the prospect of so-called
demand destruction when you hear about
companies like Carver, like Sweet Green
facing a bit of a consumer slowdown?
Yeah, there's there's a lot of
consolidation happening under the
surface, which if you're only looking at
at what the indexes are doing, I don't I
think you don't pick up on that. I I've
talked to a lot of people who say, "Oh,
tech's the best performing uh sector."
It's actually the second best performing
sector on a year-to-ate basis. Comm
services being the other, but they're
often lumped uh together. But each of
those sectors only has about I'm
rounding 60% of their stocks um in the
same kind of breadth pattern as the
index overall. In the case of the NASDAQ
100, all-time highs, but less than 50%
of the stocks are at all-time um highs.
You've got only, actually, I think it's
less than 30% of stocks within the S&P
500 have outperformed the index itself
over the past month. And you don't get
much above a third of the index over any
trailing period, 1 year, 1 month, 3
month, 6 months. So there's there's a
bit more weakness and rotation and churn
happening under the surface. It's
somewhat similar to what we have seen in
periods in the past both in 2023 and
2024. And I think the fuller story, not
the real story, but the fuller story may
be getting told under the surface of
these cap weighted indexes.
>> Do you think that narrow breadth and
high concentration is necessarily
something to be concerned about? Lzanne,
then that's the ultimate question for a
lot of people. I hear people point it
out all the time and then we just keep
grinding out new alltime highs. Is it
necessarily problematic? Not if the
market continues to do well. But if you
look at the early part of this year, the
period between February 19th, which at
that time was an all-time high and the
intraday low on April 9th, those areas
of the market, the mega cap, tech
techreated, MAG 7, whatever
categorization you wanted to use, those
were the areas that had the bigger
drawdowns relative to the index. So that
that period between midFebruary and
early April was one where the indexes
were dragged down even more, but you did
have some ballasts within the market in
areas that had not done well. So yeah,
you're absolutely right. If the market
continues to to do well and momentum is
on the market side, I think the pain
trade is still probably higher, but that
could be a situation that unfolds fairly
quickly and akin to what we saw in that
midFebruary to mid April period.
Lisanne, I appreciate your time as
always. Lzanne, Sanders there, a charge
swap on the US equity market, on the
economic data and what we can expect
from the Federal Reserve in a month or
so.
>> Really challenging. She's saying it's a
mix underneath the hood and the problem
is it's not going to be almost a
one-time event. It's going to be rolling
in terms of the impact. How difficult is
that for economists, for this White
House, and of course the Fed?
>> As Mike said, this is not just a one-off
event. This is a process and it's the
sound of the process and we ultimately
need more data and we'll get some more
September 5th for payrolls. A week later
CPI a week later that Federal Reserve
meeting. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihira. Hey
yra.
>> Hi John. We're seeing shares of circle
falling 2.4% in the pre-market as a
group of shareholders including the
co-founder and CEO announced an offering
to sell 10 million shares of diluting
event. The announcement came after the
company reported better than expected
revenue in its first earnings report.
Circle went public in in June and shares
have surged more than 425%
through yesterday's close. Meanwhile,
President Trump calling out Goldman
Sachs David Solomon, saying the bank
made quote a bad prediction about the
impact of tariffs and mocking Solomon's
DJing hobby. This after Goldman
economist published a note saying
consumers will bear the brunt of tariff
costs. And Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson, who will join our program this
hour, suggested the Fed should be open
to cutting 50 basis points at its
September meeting. Besset cited the
revised payrolls data that showed weaker
job growth and came out 2 days after the
central bank's last meeting. He also
said he was hopeful Steven Myin, Trump's
pick for the open Fed board position,
will be in place in time for that
meeting. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yahara, thank you. The man himself about
18 minutes away. Up next on the program,
casting a net far and wide.
>> We are getting the process underway.
Obviously, it's going to be President
Trump's decision and we're we're not in
a rush. There's a long long list and
like I said, there there's there's some
great candidates. What's next for the
Federal Reserve? Libby Cantrol of Pimco
joins us next
[Music]
live from New York. Welcome to the
program. Another record high in
yesterday's session. More on the cards
later on this morning potentially with
equity futures grinding higher again by
0.2% on the S&P by 23 on the NASDAQ 100
this morning casting a net far and wide.
>> I'm not really sure what the Federal
Reserve is looking at because uh thus
far we've seen very little if any uh
price pressures from the tariffs. We are
getting the process underway. Obviously,
it's going to be President Trump's
decision and you we're not in a rush.
There's a long long list and like I said
there there's there's some great
candidates. The president said he is not
going to fire Cher Powell.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump ramping up the
pressure once again on the Fed chair J
Pow to cut interest rates at the same
time searching for his replacement.
Joining us now to discuss is Bloomberg's
Mike McKe. Hey Mike.
>> Good morning. It doesn't look like at
this point we're going to have a major
uh effect uh from the president's
pressures because uh J Pal has the time
he needs to uh he's he's got a time
frame already. And so if there are
dissents and I was just looking up uh
when we saw the last kind of def
descents now you go back to 2019 four
meetings in a row there were multiple
descents and Paul survived that just
fine. I think at this point it doesn't
really matter to him whether uh people
descent especially if you add someone
like Steven Myron to the mix who is
going to come in with an axe to grind.
So uh we just kind of watch what goes on
but I don't think it's going to affect
what happens with the the Fed overalls
policym rare to see governor's descent
though on the FCC. I recall a time, I'm
sure you remember this, just after the
great financial crisis where they voted
against the Bank of England governor
Mvin King, a series of meetings in the
years after that. I think it was over QE
at the time, but that's another story.
Mike, that's something we're used to at
the MPC on the Bank of England. This is
something we've got to get used to over
at the Federal Reserve.
>> Well, I don't know about getting used to
it. It'll depend on who the chairman is
and what kind of relationship they have
with the rest of the committee. But
you're right, we haven't had a
significant number of governor dissents
in many, many decades. The last time it
really mattered was under Paul Vulkar
when there was a regular group of three
who voted against him. And then we got
to a group of four and at that point uh
the administration, the Reagan
administration then decided that that
was probably enough. Vulkar decided that
was probably enough and he resigned. Uh
now we've had Bowman and Waller descent
this uh last meeting but uh it probably
doesn't mean that there's any particular
pressure on Jay Powell. It's just that
they're expressing their views and maybe
we'll see more of that going forward. U
people have suggested that that needs to
be done that we need to hear more
diverse views.
>> Michael McKe agreed some healthy descent
on the committee. Mike, thank you. To
continue some of this conversation,
Libby Canel of Pimco joins us around the
table. Libby, good morning.
>> Good morning. Can you help familiarize
us with the process for confirmation?
We'll start with the Federal Reserve and
then move to the BLS, something I've
never talked about in my career and
maybe you haven't either up until now.
The Federal Reserve first. How quickly
can Steven Myin get confirmed?
>> Yeah, I mean it's a it's a good
question. So, the first and most
essential step in some ways is the his
hearing and then the the committee vote
at Senate Banking Committee. Um, that is
not only the the sort of the first step,
but in some ways it is the most
essential step because that is where it
only takes one Republican senator,
assuming that no Democrats vote for uh
for for for Director Myron um uh to to
basically um gum up the confirmation
process. So, you can you can't even lose
one Republican vote uh and advance to
the to the Senate floor. Now, I think
that uh that director Myron probably
will get Chair Myron will probably get
uh through that that banking hearing and
and and that vote. But again, it it that
is going to be again not only the the
sort of the first step, but the most
essential step. Then in terms of this
getting to the Senate floor, then you
can only lose three Republican votes uh
in order to get to get confirmed. Um I
think that the BLS uh you know, nominee
might be have a little bit more of a
difficult process. Um that is uh he has
to go through the what's called the help
committee. Uh, and there are some folks
on the health committee that I think um
would not necessarily mind, as we were
just talking about, uh, mind gumming up
that that that nomination process. So,
again, I think people are not
necessarily focused. They're just so
focused on the Senate floor uh, process
where again, you can only lose three
Republican votes. But again, the
committee uh, like that the committee
process is actually the most the
committee step is the most most
important one.
>> You were out with this risk the Trump
administration has when it comes to the
committee level issue when it comes to
someone like EJ Anton. Who on that
committee? What senators do you think
are willing to go up against the Trump
administration for this position?
>> Yeah, so there are I mean I think this
is where the composition of the
committee really does matter. Um and for
the help committee there are three
Republicans in particular that folks
should keep their eye on. Uh Senator
Macowski Mowsky from from Alaska,
Senator Collins from Maine, and then
Senator Ran Paul. Um none of whom are
necessarily um shy from necessarily
opposing you know this this president.
Um you had you had uh both Collins and
Ryan Paul vote against uh the one big
beautiful bill. Um you've had Senator
Marowski u sort of question question the
president. So you know they're going to
take this process seriously. Um the
advice and consent role of the Senate. I
think that many folks think it's
peruncter but it is not peruncter. This
is something that particularly for an
independ the independence of the Fed or
the independence of the BLS um they're
going to take this you know this process
universally. We've seen a lot of push
back from conservative economic circles
when it comes to Antony. Do you are you
hearing from clients that they're
concerned about him running the BLS and
what this could mean for market
confidence? Well, I think you know we
haven't heard about Antony in
particular, but just zooming out, I mean
the reliability and the veracity of data
um coming out of the BLS uh whether it
is under a Republican administration or
Democratic administration uh is just
sacrosanked for investors and so you
know I think that is going to be you
know a big focus um not only for our
clients but just for the markets at
large. So again, I think there's going
to be scrutiny on this nominee um in
particular at that health committee uh
you know that that first step um that
people may not necessarily expect
>> when it comes to both these individuals,
Myin and Anton, how quickly could the
Senate move? Right now everyone's on
vacation.
>> Yeah. So and again kind of got back to
back to John's question. I mean, you
know, it is not impossible for for Myron
to get confirmed by the midepptember
FOMC meeting, but wow, would it take a
lot for the Senate I mean, you know, not
to underestimate the Senate, but um a
lot would have to sort of fall into
place for this conference.
>> Well, it is like molasses.
>> It is like molasses. And again, I just
think that this advice and consent uh
role of the Senate, I mean, again, it
might seem like a distinction without a
difference given that, you know, the
president has been able to get all of
his cabinet secretaries for the most
part confirmed and relatively easily,
but the bar that is applied to the
independence for of Fed, you know, for
the Fed director, for Fed chair, uh, Fed
board or for the BLS, I think is quite
different. And so, I don't think it will
be peruncter. So, again, I think we
think unlikely by the September meeting.
Um, but should he get confirmed? Most
definitely by the October uh FMC
meeting.
>> Shall we finish on trade? I'd love to
know how your conversations have been
going over the last few days with
regards to the agreement with Nvidia and
the US government for a revenue share
for sales into China. What do the
discussions sound like at the moment?
>> Yeah, I think there are a lot of
questions around the details of that um,
you know, of that agreement. Um I think
there is some uh concerns around the
legality of that just given the export
clause in the constitution and and what
have you. But I think you know just sort
of zooming out um you know our clients
are looking for certainty they're
looking for clarity and I think even
though this is not necessarily something
that folks had maybe anticipated and I
think you know as we've talked about
many times they should have anticipated
uh you know the president is obviously
has high conviction around tariffs and
and trade policy and he really does want
to sort of reset the global landscape.
Um but I think that our clients are in
some ways bringing a sigh of relief that
there's a little bit more clarity albeit
um uh you know tariffs are going to be
set at a you know at a higher a higher
level
>> but tariffs are one thing the Nvidia AMD
deal is basically saying you we have our
export licenses for sale do you see this
as the path forward for other companies
well I think it remains to be seen you
know I think um just you know just you
know broadly speaking um obviously
putting a price on national security not
to say that that's what's happening but
putting a rise of national security is
not something that I think that um folks
necessarily want to see. So again, I
think that kind of the devil will be in
in the details. Um you know, one thing
that you know, again, what we're just
talking to clients about around trade
and I think that's just important to
flag is around the legal legality of all
of these tariffs. As we all know that
this uh case is being sort of
adjudicated in the courts, we could see
a ruling at any day uh in terms of kind
of the legality of that. And so many of
these things could you know around
export controls around these investment
deals around tariffs um could at least
be called into question yet again um
given you know sort of depending on
where that rule is.
>> Is it too big too far along to strike
down now
>> and about? No, I don't think so. I think
the courts have been very clear that um
they are going to rule on the basis of
whether uh the president can move
forward with tariffs under AIPA. Now
that he has a lot of other tariff tools.
So if AIPA is struck down, I think this
is sort of the broader point for markets
that he has other tools that he can
pursue. However, you know, they're they
don't have the same type of flexibility
um that AIPA has. He can't just um you
know, put them on and off. They're going
to take longer. Uh there's actually a
process. Um some of them actually even
have to go through administrative
process uh procedures uh um process. So
they're you know they're more lengthy in
terms of um of of the tool and and not
as flexible. Libby, it's good to see you
as always. Thanks for being here.
Appreciate it. Libby Cantrol there of
PIMCO, the Treasury Secretary just
moments away. This could get messier on
the trade front if the courts get
involved in a way that some people
anticipate.
>> And Libya nailed it though in terms of
the markets. These rates can stay, but
there's going to be a lot more work,
Jonathan, on the back end if they have
to go through 232 or 301 than just using
this fluid, very easy trade law when it
comes to AIPA. But definitely can get
messy if the courts say it's illegal.
We've got a lot to discuss in the next
30 minutes or so. Keep it right here on
Bloomberg Surveillance on Bloomberg TV.
Yesterday, some muted tariff passed
through relative to what was expected in
the CPI report that took the equity
market to all-time highs on the S&P 500.
This morning, firm up by 210 of 1%. Up
next, the Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson on the trade negotiations with
China and the surge for the next Fed
chair. From New York, you're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
The record highs keep coming on the S&P
500. Another one in yesterday's session.
More still to come. Futures positive by
0.2% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ 100,
higher by23 with two hours until the
cash open. Let's get you some morning
movers. Here's Danny. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. And a big disappointment for
Cororee after the bell yesterday
reporting earnings solid AI demand but
margins are under pressure spending huge
amounts of money on data centers on
acquisitions and that sent shares lower
8.8% in the pre-market. Also moving this
morning in the pre-market session
alongside Coree we have Venture Global
those shares up 10% winning in an
arbitration battle with Shell. The
accusation was that they were selling LG
into the spot market and not honoring
exactly some of the contracts they had
with Shell. But again, Venture Global
winning that battle up 10%. Finally this
morning, rounding things out with Hannes
brand. It is official. They will be
bought by Gillad. That is the Canadian
activewear brand. But there were reports
of this on Tuesday. Shares had run up
28%. The price tag on this 2.2 billion
with a price tag of $6 per share. were
trading just under that deal price, but
again, shares have run up a lot, so
they've come down about 9.4% this
morning. John,
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Danny in the next hour. We've got a
lot to discuss. President Trump
extending trade talks with China for
another 60 days as both countries
continue to out key differences. Joining
us now to discuss that and a whole lot
more, the 79th Secretary of the
Treasury, Scott Besson. Mr. Secretary,
good morning. Good to see you.
>> Morning, John.
>> You're a cover model now. You're famous.
Can we get that front cover up for
Business Week this month? Mr. Secretary,
I remember when you were just Scott
Besson and we could go for breakfast
together, the three of us, and no one
would bother you. What happened?
>> I I don't know, but I hope it's not the
curse of the cover
cuz you know, is this a top historic
historically the uh the being on the
cover is a curse. So,
>> well, this equity market is not cursed
and keeps grinding out all-time highs.
There is some confidence that we're set
settling some issues on the trade front.
There's one issue that came up this week
that we'd love to hear from you about,
and that's Nvidia. Where did this
agreement come from? You've been quite
innovative, this administration, on
trade issues. Where did this come from?
Who came up with it?
>> The the president the the president, as
as I tell everyone, the the president is
one of the most open-minded people I
know. He does everything at first
principles. Why do we do things this
way? Why shouldn't we do it the other
way? And, you know, I I think that this
is a very unique solution. allows Nvidia
to expand into China. It can make Nvidia
chips the uh bellweather for Chinese
technology and then the US taxpayer gets
a share of that.
>> Key word unique. Is it unique to Nvidia
and AMD or is this a model for other
companies?
>> I I think we could see it in other
industries over time. I think, you know,
right now, uh, this is unique, but you
now now that we have the model and the
the beta test, why not expand it?
>> What do you say to people who think
we're putting a price on national
security concerns by basically selling
export licenses?
>> Uh, there no national security concerns
here. We would not uh sell any of the
advanced chips. So, the H20s, I don't
know whether you'd say they're four,
five, six levels down the the chip
stack. What we do not want here,
Anmarie, is for Huawei to have a digital
belt and robe, right? So, we we do not
want the standard to become Chinese
across the world or even in China.
>> Well, we have exclusive reporting that
Beijing is now sending out letters to
firms saying actually shrug off those
H20 and use our domestic champions. Is
this something you might discuss with
your counterpart?
>> Uh, sure. We we we can discuss that. But
it it also tells me that they are
worried about the Nvidia chips becoming
the standard in China. Look, you know,
Nvidia is an incredible product. Uh a
lot of the technology in China is, you
know, they're piggybacking and I'll use
piggybacking as a kind word for uh
acquiring uh our our technology.
>> Do you mean stealing
>> your words? And yes, that's what I mean.
And the
Nvidia Jensen Wong just stays years
ahead of them.
>> Criticism came from the Wall Street
Journal editorial board though about
this new unique policy. They say it's a
step toward government control of
private business. Are you concerned some
of these polies are starting to look
like the country you're actually trying
to derisk from?
>> Central planning basically out of the
oval.
>> No, no, no, no. Not not at all. Because
where where we got was with with this un
unfettered trade uh we did not have
secure trade or fair trade and so now we
are trying to make it secure. So you
know you you don't want to we're not
sending out the the highest level chips
and you know we we don't want to sell
everything to everybody. So there there
is a need for uh intervention and you
know the Wall Street Journal just let
let her rip kind of bunch of grumpy old
men over there. I was with them
yesterday.
>> This is going to raise some revenue.
What do you plan to do with it?
>> Pay down the debt.
>> It's all going to go to play down the
debt because we have heard some stories
about the money going back to consumers,
going back to citizens of the United
States taxpayers. Well, President
President Trump's talked about that. And
look, the the these
that the bottom 50% of wage earners in
the one big beautiful bill are getting a
lot of money back. No tax on tips, no
tax on overtime, no tax on social
security. Auto loans are going to be tax
deductible. So, I think if we could make
a substantial dent in the debt
repayment, then we could talk about a
program like that. Could you share with
us the kind of numbers you're thinking
about at the moment just in terms of
revenue raising and not just the NVIDIA
deal? I'm talking about the tariffs on
top of that. What are we raising at the
moment month?
>> Well, you know, John, I I've been saying
that we could hit 300 billion this year
and I think that number is going to be
low. I think I'm going to I I always
like to uh come in low and then surprise
on the upside. But I think in the next
days or weeks, I may have to uh move
that number up substantially. You've
heard the debate playing out on Wall
Street now for a number of months. Who's
going to pay the tariffs? By definition,
the importer will pay the tariff. The
more important question here is who
absorbs the costs? Whether it's the
foreign supplier, whether it's the
domestic company here in the United
States or the end consumer. We got some
data yesterday. You've seen it. We've
all looked at it. Limited tariff pass
through relative to what was expected.
Because of that, a lot of people are
suggesting that maybe companies are
absorbing costs in a way we didn't
anticipate. Perhaps the pass through
will be more muted in the future. Are
you comfortable with with where things
are now or do you think things might
rebalance in the months to come?
>> Uh Jonathan, I think your framing there
is exactly right. Exactly right. Because
that you know obviously the tariff
itself is paid at the port but what if
the producer in the other country has
lowered their price the 10 15 20% so
that there is no price change with the
tariff and obviously our largest trade
deficit is with China and China does not
have the same profit objective that
other western democracies do. So that is
an employment agency and my view has
been that they would uh continue to eat
the tariffs. Uh they are doing that. So
I I think what we've seen uh is likely
to continue happening. I also think
there are probably a lot of corporate
margins that got very fat during co and
now we're seeing a return to like normal
precoid margins.
>> You see this as some kind of
redistribution between corporate America
and maybe the consumer main street and
Wall Street. Uh, I think you this this
administration's all about Main Street,
but Wall Street's hitting a new high.
So, you know that it it it's this false
equivalency. It's not either or. You
know, I tell everyone I call it parallel
prosperity. Wall Street's done great.
Main Street can now do great.
>> Wall Street might do even better if the
Federal Reserve cuts interest rates. The
president was pretty clear yesterday.
Put out this comment. Jerome Tal must
now lower the interest rate. Is it
reasonable to give them a bit more time
to draw conclusions about what's
happening here?
>> Uh, well, I I I think what we could see
is that, you know, let's first of all,
if what if the BLS data had been the
higher quality and we'd had those
numbers, Jonathan, so you if we'd seen
those numbers in May, in June, uh, I
suspect we could have had rate cuts in
June and July. So you that tells me that
there's a very good chance of a 50 basis
point rate cut. And you know I I think
President Trump is very good at giving
these nicknames. And I think the reason
that the uh Jay Powell gets the nickname
too late is because he wants to go into
a series of rate hikes. He's not
willing. He's not Alan Greenspan who was
very forwardthinking. they try to be
more data driven which I think is a
mistake because I think we are going
back into an economy like we had in the
90s. So you know it it's just very
old-fashioned thinking. But I do think
we could go into a series of rate cuts
here starting with a 50 basis point rate
cut in September.
>> A 50 basis rate cut in September. Does
that signal that the economy though is
not doing well? uh that that signals uh
that there's an adjustment and the that
the rates are too constrictive. If if
you look at any model that the you know
if if you we we should probably be 150
175 basis points lower. So you know I I
think the committee needs to step back.
I I think uh probably one of the most
politicized governors just went off the
board and that she she was uh very very
political, I believe. And I think that
um now
>> what did she do that gave you that
impression? I'd love to know.
>> Sorry.
>> I imagine you're referring to Governor
Cougler. What did she do that gave you
that? I think there's a lot of inside
baseball and look Governor Cougler, you
read read what she was saying with Kla
Harris was running that we needed rate
cuts, we needed this, we got to foam the
runway and then all of a sudden it it
was hard to know whether you know TDS
was it Trump
dement dimension syndrome or Trump
derangement syndrome or tariff
derangement syndrome.
>> You get the opportunity to remake the
Federal Reserve. the president gets the
opportunity to remodel, reshape the
Federal Reserve. And I'm not talking
about the remodeling that maybe the
current chairman's going through. We'll
talk about that another time. Want to
talk about the complexion and character
of the committee, the changes that
you're making at the moment. Steven
Martin, let's start with Steven. How
quickly can you get Marin confirmed?
>> Uh we'll we'll see. I you know, the the
president uh has great sway with leader
Thun. Leader Thoon's been a great
partner during the tax deal and I think
that he would like to see uh Steven who
I I've known for a long time get on
there as soon as possible. So I'm I'm
hopeful about the September meeting and
you Jonathan that the the president's
concerned about the building and those
massive cost overrun which which just
tell you that there is no accountability
at that organization. There's no
oversight in terms of the spending. But
the president and I are both concerned
about the foundations of the Fed. The
foundations of the Fed and you know h
how did this happen and why did it
happen and you know how did the
leadership let it happen?
>> When it comes to director my do you
expect him to stay on past the January
term that expires from Cougler seat?
>> I I wouldn't expect that.
>> So who are some names you're thinking of
the Cougler seat because everyone has
been focused on who is going to fill the
chairmanship role. Who are you thinking
to fill that extra seat? Well, the and
Marie, I'm going to we're working on the
big list right now. I I think they're
going to be a couple more names revealed
today. They're going to be private
sector names. So, we had a series or a
list of of current Fed members. We're
going to have some private sector, very
wellrespected, very wellrespected
people. And um then we will get to the
second seat.
>> Can you give us some names? A little bit
of a tease. Maybe people that have been
on this program.
>> Well, I just did tease telling you there
would be some private sector names.
>> Okay. When it comes to the Fed chair,
though, can you give us a sense of how
many names you're actually thinking
about?
>> Well, I I'm going to interview I'm going
to cast a wide net 10 10 11 people and
then uh there'll be a group of us who
are meeting with them and we want to
talk about monetary policy. We want to
talk about uh regulatory policy which is
very very important because the the Fed
stepped I think bigfooted the other
regulators. The Fed's one of three
regulators Federal Reserve, OCC and
FDIC.
And I think that you know they uh need
to understand that they are one of
three. And then the third is the
institution itself which I think is what
President Trump has been focused on
quite a bit too. after you do this
process, how many names you're going to
give to the president and when does he
start those in-person interviews?
>> Yeah, we we we don't have a timeline by
uh put putting Steven Meyer in that
gives us more time and again I want to
cast a wide net. The president's very
open-minded before he chose J. Pal
Janet Yellen was interviewed. Uh John
Taylor was interviewed. Two of them
couldn't have be more different. So, you
know, they were under consideration.
>> I give you credit for coming up with a
really credible list to replace the
Federal Reserve Chair Jay Pow. Without a
doubt, I think most people that come on
this program agree with that. What I
want to talk about is the BLS now
because there's some controversy around
this pick. I'm sure you've heard some of
the concerns. EJ Anthony had said the
following earlier this week before
getting the pick from the president.
Until this issue with payrolls is
corrected. He said, quote, "The BLS
should suspend issuing the monthly jobs
report, but keep publishing the more
accurate though less timely quarterly
data." We'd love your thoughts on this.
Is that something you'd support?
>> Uh, not not at all. And look, what what
what somebody says when they're a
private citizen is is very very
different. You know, I called for a
shadow fed chair. And you know, now now
that I'm in the seat, the I I don't
think we we need to do that. And I was
there when EJ was interviewed and he is
incredibly qualified. And I think the
most important thing here is that we get
back to the integrity of the numbers
because it just became okay you just
like so many things in our government
for it to get sloppy. And you know e EJ
is precise. He has a doctorate in
economics. I think President Trump put a
lot of thought into this. Uh he was very
thorough in his questioning of him. So,
what we want is good data because you
can't make good decisions without good
data. As I just said, it's very likely
that the Fed would have been doing
something else if in June, in July, if
they had had this data.
>> Well, let's talk about the data we've
got and the process we have and how we
might improve that process. As you know,
that data is prone to big revisions. In
your career on Wall Street, we've all
been dealing with this for a long, long
time. because of the process and the lag
time in the responses, it is constantly
reviewed month on month as you get more
responses from corporate America. How
can we improve that process so this data
is less prone to these big revisions?
>> Well, I I I've been in government now
for for 7 months and I I can tell you
that if we if we take the IRS, which I'm
I'm now the head of, they've been
working on a tech upgrade since 1990
1990. We brought in in a young person to
uh fix that. The tech upgrade has been
underway for longer than he is old. So
he wasn't born when the tech upgrade
started. So you know I just think like
this idea that we're accepting this
mediocrity in government. Why don't we
bring things into the 21st century? Why
don't we bring it into the digital age?
because you I I I don't know about
political bias one way or the other, but
what I can tell you is that the sample
response size kept getting smaller and
smaller and then they they filled in the
cells and you know anytime you get
judgment versus data then things become
qualitative and not quantitative and I I
think EJ is going to do a great job of
bringing back quantitative standards. I
I think he like these these attacks in
the press I I think are all wrong of
him.
>> It's not in the press. It's even within
conservative economic circles that don't
think that he is credible to to run the
commission. Is the Trump administration
open to putting more resources then to
BLS, maybe lifting a hiring freeze?
>> Well, you know, and Marie, that's that's
more of a Democratic idea that, you
know, we need more. It's always money.
It's always money. it it's you know new
new whether it's New York City schools,
Chicago schools, DC schools, you get
terrible outcomes. I think that he's
going to sit back look at the process
and how can we use technology to do do
this better. You know, I I got to
Treasury and it was shocking. We we
process 1.5 billion payments a year and
500 million of them, onethird of them
did not have what's known as a task
treasury accounting symbol on them. and
people were just hitting sin, sin, sin.
And it it wasn't a gigantic leap just to
try to get people to do their jobs.
>> This has big implications for how people
view credible economic data, but also
the markets as well. So, let's talk
about financial markets in the bond
market. You've always been a 10-year
man. The spread between the 2-year and
the 10ear, I think, has been really
stable over the last several months
where we've started to see some leakages
between 10 out to 30s. that 30-year
bond. As a Treasury Secretary, I
remember you referring to yourself as
the nation's top bond salesman. What's
the usefulness of issuing a 30-year bond
when it feels like at the moment we're
outsourcing borrowing costs to what
happens in Japan, what might happen in
the UK, what happens in Europe. What's
the value of issuing that?
>> That's a that's a great question,
Jonathan. And look, we we are committed
to keeping inflation expectations low.
And this is a global phenomenon whether
it's the 10 or the 30 that the US 10year
is one of the few 10 years where the
yield is down on the year. So that tells
me that there's credibility from
Treasury, credibility from Fed that the
inflation expectations are well
anchored, but there's definitely leakage
from the Japanese have an inflation
problem. I've spoken to Governor Uea, my
opinion, not his. They're behind the
curve, so they're going to be hiking and
they need to get their inflation problem
under control. In Germany, we saw a
substantial spike in German rates in the
past week also. So, you know, our
30-year is getting dragged along uh with
that. We've been refilling the Treasury
General account uh which dur during the
debt sealing standoff got run down and
we're doing that with short-term bills.
Do you see more reason then to pair back
on 30-year issuance with all this in
mind? And this is a change again for you
now and the seat as you look at these
developments and rethink things. How are
your thoughts on that matter evolving?
>> Yeah, that they they are evolving and
you know we we'll see where things go. I
I do think a as we bring down this big
deficit that we inherited I I think that
the US that the entire US curve can have
a parallel shift down relative to the
rest of the world.
>> Do you think you can work with the
Federal Reserve on this matter? So if we
take the weighted average maturity of
Fed holdings at the moment believe
that's running at about nine years. The
issuance of the average maturity of
outstanding bills, notes, bonds, that's
closer to six. Do we need to narrow that
gap a little bit?
>> Yeah. Look, I I I I don't think the Fed
needs to get back into the large-scale
asset purchase business and they you
we've had very good demand, especially
in the belly of the curb, which is where
asset managers seem most interested.
Now,
>> when it comes to other things you're
working on in Washington DC, there's
still this stock ban legislation that
has been circulating around Congress. Is
the president prepared to sign that
bill? Uh I I don't think we have the
perfect bill yet, but I I am going to
start pushing for uh its single stock
trading ban because the it it is the
credibility of the House and the Senate
that you look at some of these
eyepopping returns, whether it's
Representative Pelosi, uh Senator Widen,
every hedge fund would be jealous of
them. And you know, the American people
deserve better than this. People people
don't shouldn't come to Washington to
get rich. They should come to serve the
American people and it brings down trust
in the system because I can tell you
that if any private citizen traded this
way, the SEC would be knocking on their
door.
>> Do you think it needs to extend though
beyond single stocks? These individuals
can still have ETFs and and other
products.
>> Well, what what I used to do at my old
firm was you could buy ETFs. They had to
be widely held ETFs, so they couldn't be
of a, you know, small size. And there
was a long holding period. You the the
House and the Senate, they're supposed
to be working for the American people,
their constituents. They're supposed to
be uh make making law. And um they
shouldn't be trading every day. I I'm
I'm not going to name names, but there
was one person in Congress who had 12
or,300 trades two years ago, and you
know, my hedge fund didn't have that
many trades.
>> Do you think it needs to also extend to
the executive branch and include the
president and the vice president?
>> I I I think that they would be fine the
on the single stock and and the holding
period.
>> Maybe they're just great traders, Mr.
Secretary. Do you not think they're just
great traders?
>> The the it it is a statistical anomaly.
You know, Warren Warren Buffett wrote an
essay once and he talked about the zoo
in Graham and Dodville and if all the
orangutans in that zoo kept typing the
Bible, then there's something going on
in that zoo. There is something going on
on Capitol Hill in terms of information
leakage that is statistically the uh not
uh
not sound.
>> Do you think those restrictions should
extend to the executive branch?
>> Sorry.
>> Do you think those restrictions should
extend to the White House? Well, that I
mean they already ex they already
extended Treasury is I um I have you
spoken to the president about this. Is
he comfortable?
>> Well well the the president's come out
in in favor of this and Jeff is in favor
of this too. And I I can tell you if you
if I were Congress and I were looking at
my ratings with the American people, I
would be pushing this because again it's
an extractive class. You should not come
to DC expecting to line your pocket. you
should come to DC to do the people's
business.
>> We couldn't agree more and it's been
greatly disappointing to see that
there's tighter restrictions on how
journalists trade than over some members
of Congress in Washington.
>> Yeah, I I mean I again it the it is one
of the things that I think we can do to
get trust back into the system.
>> Just wanted to finish on the president's
visit to Alaska going into the weekend.
Amy's going to be there. What do you
think we can accomplish this weekend? Uh
I think that that the president uh
has uh been thinking about this a long
time. He uh believes as do I that this
war never would have started if he had
been president and he is committed to
ending the bloodshed. But not not in any
cost. Not not in any cost. I I think
everyone has been frustrated with
President Putin. We expected that he
would come to the table in a more
wholesome way. It looks like he may be
ready to negotiate and we've put
secondary tariffs on Indian on the
Indians for buying Russian oil and I
could see if things don't go well then
sanctions or secondary tariffs could go
up.
>> What about China? They're the main
purchasers of Russian crude. Uh again, I
I not going to uh get ahead of the
president, but the president is the best
at creating leverage for himself and he
will make it clear to President Putin
that all options are on the table.
>> So sanctions can go up or they can also
be loosened.
>> Sanctions can go up, they can be
loosened. Uh they can uh have a
definitive life, they can go on
indefinitely. You know, there's this
Russian shadow fleet of ships around the
world that I think we could crack down
on them. But the and Marie and Jonathan,
the one message I would leave you with,
it's the President Trump is meeting with
President Putin and the eur the
Europeans are in the wings carping about
how he should do it, what he should do
it. But the Europeans need to join us in
these sanctions. They need to, the
Europeans need to be willing to put on
these secondary sh sanctions. I was at
the G7 meeting in Canada with President
Trump and uh the Europeans kept talking
about Senator Graham's bill to do the
secondary tariffs. Yeah. And I looked at
all the leaders around the table and I
said, "Is everyone at this table willing
to put a 200% tariff, secondary tariff
on China?" And you know what? Everybody
wanted to see what what kind of shoes
they were wearing.
>> I imagine the Germans went very quiet
and that's been a problem for a long
time.
>> Yeah, it's it's put up or shut up time.
The pre the president is creating his
own leverage. We need the Europeans to
come in and help create more leverage.
>> Mr. Secretary, I appreciate your time.
>> Good to see you.
>> You're enjoying this. I get the feel
that you're enjoying this. Sorry.
>> It's good to see you. You seem happy.
>> I I think things are going well.
>> The Treasury Secretary, Scott Besson.
Mr. Besson, thank you. We appreciate it,
sir. From New York City, the
conversation continues. The third hour
of Bloomberg surveillance just around a
corner. We'll catch up with Kazana
Arnoff in just a moment.
[Music]
>> We certainly have seen signs of very
rapid risk takingaking.
>> The bulls will say there is further room
to go. From a technology and an
innovation standpoint, it is still hard
to beat the US markets.
>> The big picture for the equity markets,
it's about profits, profits, profits.
>> Equities are just focusing on the profit
story. And I do think that there there's
some durability.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. The third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance starts
right now, and your scores are shaping
up as follows. Alltime highs continue.
We add to them. We're up another 2/10en
of 1% on the S&P 500 up by 0.24 on the
Nasdaq. In the bond market, check out
the front end of the yield curve. The
2-year this morning down three basis
points. The 2-year breaking 370 369. The
focus on Federal Reserve policy. The
Treasury Secretary on this program just
moments ago making the argument for the
Federal Reserve to cut interest rates
150 to 175 basis points. So basically
the Treasury Secretary is saying that
when you look at the labor market data
and you go back and look at the
revisions that the Fed should have
already been cutting. They shouldn't
have been waiting for September which is
why he thinks they need to be more
aggressive when it comes to September.
The question is Jonathan if they go 50
basis points in September. Does this
signal to the world that actually the US
economy is not on solid footing?
>> The good news at the moment is the
tariff pass through has been muted
relative to what was expected. That's
the good news. The bad news is that
might change in the months to come and
that can change in a number of ways.
Maybe you pass it on to consumers or
perhaps at the moment companies continue
to absorb the costs but ultimately they
start cutting costs themselves and
unemployment starts moving in the wrong
direction. These are the kind of things
that can rebalance in the months to come
and the juryy's still out.
>> We need to see the mitigation efforts
when it comes to these companies that
have been absorbing some of these tariff
costs. I really keep coming back to the
autos because right now what you're not
seeing in the data that car prices are
going up. But what you do see when you
hear from corporate America, especially
out of Detroit, is that they are
absorbing billions of dollars when it
comes to some of these costs and they
have yet to pass it on. Does this mean
we're going to see layoffs in this
industry or does this mean that your
car, if you're looking to buy a new car
at the end of the year going into 2026,
is going to be high? Imagine cutting
rates to 150 basis points over the next
6 months or so with equities already at
all-time highs and credit spreads that
tight. Coming up this hour, Oxana Aranov
of JP Morgan Asset Management as
investors add to the recent rally. We'll
catch up with Eric Ajaran of UBS as Wall
Street banks face pressure from the
White House and Tom Porceli of PGM fixed
income reacting to the latest read on
inflation. We begin this hour with
stocks higher as optimism grows over Fed
rate cuts. Suxana Aronov of JP Morgan
asset management writing the 2%
inflation target is dead. The Fed
continues to be in a very difficult
spot, but the odds are so high for
September now that I don't think they
dare to disappoint. Oxana joins us now
for more. Oxana, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What would disappointment look like in
the next few months?
>> Well, it's um really interesting to me
first of all around the comments that
preceded me here in this studio the
aggressive cuts. It's really fascinating
to me the entire rhetoric, not just um
Treasury Secretary, but there is this
rhetoric out there that rates are
restrictive and yet you know financial
conditions are easiest that we've seen
in years as you know tracked by
Bloomberg. Um obviously risk as at
all-time highs whether you look at
equities, whether you look at credit
spreads are at all-time tights. Credit
spreads are tighter than 99%
um of readings, you know, over the last
several decades. So, it's not clear to
me what a cut that is that aggressive
going to do, you know, by cutting at the
front end of the curve. Like, what are
we really hoping to achieve? Right? We
want lower borrowing costs for small
businesses. We want lower borrowing
costs for mortgage um uh borrowers, but
is that really going to occur if we
continue to cut at the front end, but
the long end is not moving off of the
things that the front end is moving up?
The long end is moving off of risk
premium. You know, there's a lot of
uncertainty. the long end is moving off
of the fiscal picture which by the way
you know July exposed some some of the
worst deficit related right um data on
on record and so the long end doesn't
really care how much the Fed cuts at the
front end and so that's not really going
to do anything for mortgage borrowers or
small business borrowers
>> in fact it might push longer end yields
up
>> exactly and we saw exactly that last
year when the Fed probably was too
aggressive with a 50 basis point cut in
an environment that did not really
warranted from an economic standpoint
and the market said I don't know what
that what that is and yes that will
provide a runway for more appreciation
for risk assets and that's probably what
a cut will do here and that's where the
disappointment comes in right so we may
see a selloff if that doesn't come
through so I think I think the Fed is in
a really difficult position because they
know how to restart the economy that is
slowing this is the playbook that's been
their playbook for over a decade but
they have seen that their e efficacy
with respect to constraining inflation
is much much less effective.
>> You think they're going to move in
September though? So let's talk about
recent developments in the yield curve.
Yesterday we got the data. A lot of
people thought September's a log. Yields
lower at the front end, higher at the
long end. That's the steepness that
you're talking about. Exactly.
>> Do you expect that to continue?
>> I think the long end is essentially
locked in this, you know, 4 and a half
to 5%. You know, it could go a little
bit lower, but the tendency is towards
the high fours. and ultimately possibly
even a five handle on the 10-year
because of the fiscal backdrop, because
of the um risk premium. Like what is the
10-year Treasury? It is really the rate
of growth plus the rate of inflation
plus that long-term premium. And the
long-term premium was dead for many
years. It was essentially zero when the
Fed and other central banks were in zero
rate policy. There was really nothing to
see there, right? Everything was kind of
stagnant, if you will, from a growth and
inflation standpoint. That has changed.
Inflation is alive and well. I think the
2% it's it's really interesting to me
that, you know, core came in at 3.1, but
the market's like, "Oh, this is great
news. We should cut here." Like, you
know, several several months ago or a
year ago, that number um coming in at
3.1 would have been a disaster because
we thought we were on the trajectory
down to two.
>> Well, you think the Fed should just be
targeting 3% anyway?
>> I think that's the reality of the world
we are in currently. And I think
ultimately, you know, when some of this
political noise dies down, I think the
Fed will and it's already seeing that
the markets are accepting the 3%
inflation rate essentially, right? And
so I think the Fed eventually will guide
towards a range, not a 2% target, but
more of a range in terms of their
target. And I do think that has
ramifications for the long end of the
curve as well, just kind of anchoring it
where it is even further and possibly,
you know, giving it a five handle, if
you will.
>> If they cut in September, is that
basically them admitting that we are now
targeting a range of inflation? We're
not even going to attempt to get it back
to 2%.
>> I think that definitely is part of the
or should be part of the conversation
because the markets are definitely
saying, you know, we're okay with this.
Let's let's cut here. That wouldn't have
been the case in any other environment
where unemployment was at 4.1 to 4.2%.
Where markets were marching ahead the
way that they are where consumer
spending continued. Yes, it's a bit
weaker, but it is still, you know,
continuing because layoffs are um
relatively limited. So, consumers still
have money to spend. In any sort of in
any other environment, this would not
have been the sort of economic backdrop
where you cut or you know, let alone cut
across. But what you describe, Oxana,
just tells me equities are going to keep
on going higher. Credit spreads are
going to keep on grinding tighter.
What's the counterpoint to that?
>> So look, at the end of the day, some
amount of inflation in the system is not
a bad thing, particularly for the bottom
of the cap structure, right? So the fact
that equities are going to keep going
higher is not a a counterintuitive
thing. Goozing them higher by cutting
rates at the front end, that's a
different story. By the way, the Fed had
this experience, a very different Fed,
but had this experience in the '90s when
in the mid '90s they cut initially in a
similar environment, frankly, from an
economic standpoint. Probably the only
other time in history where you can draw
that parallel and then they saw that
that next leg of a very rich um stock
market kind of started developing and
eventually they went back to hiking. And
I think we are possibly seeing that play
out. And we've said for a long time that
the environment we're in is not like the
prior cutting cycles where you just cut
aggressively or where the Fed has cut
aggressively. We're really more in a
late 90s type environment where the Fed
cut initially and then went back to
hiking because inflation remained around
that 3% target as opposed to around that
3% as opposed to their 2% target.
>> In the meantime, shouldn't I just keep
dancing, keep buying?
>> I think um this is not bad news for risk
and we're definitely not against risk.
This is not great news for bonds though
because if we continue to see resilience
in the economy the way we've had, yes,
there is definitely some slowing, but I
don't think there's um appropriate it's
appropriate to talk about an imminent
recession at all. Um that is going to be
challenging for bonds. We're also seeing
obviously stubborn inflation. So maybe
we're seeing um somewhere down the road
maybe a stagflation light but for right
now the economy continues to be
resilient and a resilient economy or
even a stagflation light environment
neither one of those are great for bonds
particularly when valuations are this
rich in credit and by the way again
being constructive on the economy
overall. Yes, balance sheets are
generally in pretty good shape, but the
reality is that the combination of very
rich valuations and tremendous
complacency. I mean, um, you guys wrote
over the past few days the frenzy in the
AT1 market, for example, you know, a
somewhat nichier part of the market. We
were buying it a couple years ago when
it was really trading at, you know, 70
cents on the dollar. Right now, it's
above par and people cannot get enough.
I mean a great symptom of the kind of
complacency and chase for yield that is
happening out there. And I think a
combination of complacency and price
richness is just a bad combination for
price stability going forward. And
that's not saying anything around the
fundamentals of those.
>> Does it feel like then we're at a top?
>> Absolutely. And credit 100%. We are at a
top. And I've always find it fascinating
that there's so much appetite to
understand where's the equity top. But
in fixed income, the tops are so easily
identifiable. I talk about this all the
time. When rates are this tight, yes,
you are at a top. And the question is
simply whether you're going to be able
to clip that coupon before the music
start stops or is there going to be a
price discovery particularly in the
lower rated part of the market, right?
Where that price discovery can be get
more selling and now you have an entire
private credit ecosystem. How is that
going to react as people possibly pull
liquidity? So I think again combination
of price, very rich price valuations and
credit and complacency is what's to be
watched here.
>> Oxana, it's good to see you.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Great to catch up and thanks for
reacting to that interview with the
Treasury Secretary a little bit earlier.
Oxana Aronov of JP Morgan Asset
Management with an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara Anard. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant said interest rates should be
150 to 175 basis points lower. Speaking
on our show in the last hour, he said
the Fed should be heading into a series
of rate cuts in the coming months,
starting with a half point reduction in
September. Meanwhile, Ukrainian
President Vladimir Zalinski is rejecting
Vladimir Putin's demand that Ukraine
give up the Donbass region to secure a
ceasefire. He's insisting that any talks
must include Keev and its European
allies to address both territorial and
security guarantees. Zilinski says
Donbass could be a bridge head for a
future new Russian offensive. And in
sports, it was a banner night for the
New York baseball teams. Pete Alonzo
crushed his 253rd career home run,
passing Daryl Strawberry for the most
all-time in franchise history as the
Mets defeated the Atlanta Braves 13-5.
And on the other side of the city, Aaron
Judge homerred to help lead the Yankees
to a 9 to1 victory over the Minnesota
Twins. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Amarie Happier, I've
just found out why you just didn't
mention it.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Yankees, Mark, ready to go.
>> Yankees. I know, but we've It's been a
little bit of a rough season. I just
love how they also feel like they have
to do the math. Everyone knows. We just
want to know about the Yankees.
>> There we go. Up next on the program, the
morning calls. us. Eric Nagarian of UBS
with the banking industry facing
pressure from the President Donald
Trump.
[Music]
We could have had rate cuts in June and
July. So that tells me that there's a
very good chance of a 50 basis point
rate cut. I do think we could go into a
series of rate cuts here starting with a
50 basis point rate cut in September.
The rates are too constrictive. If if
you look at any model that the you know
if if you we we should probably be 150
175 basis points lower.
>> That was the Treasury Secretary Scott
Essen just moments ago on this program
making the argument for rates to be more
than 150 basis points lower at the
Federal Reserve. Now typically an
argument like that might not carry much
weight with Wall Street. But at a time
when this is the individual interviewing
potential Fed share replacements then
this is a view that becomes a little bit
more important. that might be the
threshold to get over the line to get
the pick
>> or potentially, especially given how the
Trump administration works, you aim high
and then you're willing to take
something a little bit under. You want
to calibrate always to the extreme. So,
if he's calling for 50 basis points in
terms of a cut in September, maybe then
the administration will be happy if the
Fed is able to at least cut 25 basis
points.
>> Not a million miles away from what is
priced over the next, say, 18 months. So
I think for a lot of people they've got
two in 2025, maybe another four in 2026.
You get to 150. How quickly do they want
to get there at the White House? And I
think that's the ultimate question now.
How big is that push? How aggressive
will it be early next year?
>> And also the Treasury Secretary says
this is about re-calibration because he
says rates are too restrictive. We've
heard him talk about what's happening in
terms of small businesses and Americans
when it comes to the mortgage market.
But Jonathan, if you are a Fed and
you're cutting 50 basis points,
basically, are you signaling that the
economy is not very good? Last September
before the election, the Fed came out
and cut 50 basis points. And the
president was asked about it in New York
at a crypto bar he was visiting, part of
the campaign trail, and he said, "Well,
if they're cutting by 50 basis points,
you know what? The economy not might not
be very good." That doesn't sound like
it's going to be the same argument
they're going to use in 2025.
>> Are these stock markets at alltime highs
in anticipation of some of this? We had
some weight to the rally this morning up
another 0.2% on the S&P on the NASDAQ up
by 0.25 on the Russell up by 0.7. That's
the price action. Here are your morning
calls. First up, JP Morgan upgrading
Capri to overweight expecting revenue
improvement and growth of Michael Kors.
Your second call from Bank of America
cutting its price target on Core Weave
to 168 saying near-term overhangs are
putting pressure on shares. And finally,
Piper Sandler raising its price target
on Nvidia to 225, looking for another
positive quarter for the chip maker.
That stock is just about unchanged.
Let's turn to the banks. President
Donald Trump taking aim at Goldman Sachs
CEO David Solomon saying the bank made a
quote bad prediction on the impact of
tariffs. Joining us now to discuss is
Bloomberg's Herman Chan. Herman, welcome
to the show. I remember when it was
Brian Moyahan the president went after.
That was at the World Economic Forum
earlier this year. and now it's David
Solomon. How are these banks handling
this criticism?
>> Look, bank CEOs get a lot of criticism
that just comes with the territory in
2025. So, really, you just have to chalk
it up to this is what's happening within
the industry. Um Trump's uh commentary
about bad predictions and estimates is
one thing, but uh criticizing the the
bank CEOs for debanking is something
else that might warrant a little bit
more caution. And that's what we're
expecting going forward.
>> So Herman, just offer some detail on
that. And I think you're absolutely
right. The debanking issue, this is
actually what the president brought up
with Brian Moahan at the start of the
year when they had that brief
conversation remotely at the World
Economic Forum. What's actually been
happening? What's the accusation and
what's been happening?
>> Sure. The deep banking issue really
reflects the regulatory regime of of the
prior administration, right? So uh the
banks really have to adhere to certain
uh protocols like know your customer and
anti-moneyaundering.
And I guess I can give you an example uh
you know a couple years back after the
the failures of some crypto banks like
silvergate and signature where crypto
was not uh the best place to be. So
regulators really cracked down on that
and the banks did as well as a
reflection of um the regulatory regime.
>> Chan there of Bloomberg Intelligence
breaking it down for us. the situation,
the tension between the president and
some of the big banks on Wall Street.
>> And yesterday, it was about their
economist, a Goldman Sachs. He didn't
like this report coming out about how
consumers may end up paying more of the
tariff costs. And then, of course, he
went on to make it a little bit more
personal because David Solomon likes to
DJ sometimes on the weekends. I would
say everyone has their outlet. This
president likes to golf whenever he can
get out there on the course. David
Solomon, on the other hand, likes to,
you know, DJ at parties. Joining us now
to extend this conversation, not that
piece of it, but the broader
conversation, Erikica Naggerian of UBS.
Erica, welcome to the program. The stock
for Goldman Sachs so far in 2025 has
been absolutely flying. It's up by about
30%. Is it fair to say that David
Solomon should bother running a bank?
>> Absolutely. He's doing a good job at it.
Look, um, like Amarie said, everyone has
things they like to do on the weekends,
but the thing that David Solomon does
best on the weekdays, and I bet you some
weekends is run this bank well. And so,
as I think about the setup for, you
know, Goldman here, right, we saw
activity levels really pick up in the
month of June after really nothing going
on in April and in the middle of May,
right, through the middle of May. And
so, you know, given some of the capital
that has been freed up, and I'm sure
we're going to discuss that, Jonathan,
you know, I think Goldman Sachs and its
peers are, you know, in pretty good
shape for the second half of the year.
>> Erica, not to get too much into the
personal issues here, but the president
just met with David Solomon less than
two weeks ago. From your point of view,
how are the big banks dealing with this
administration? Is it is this good
relationship between Washington and Wall
Street?
remember what Herman said that they've
been like dealing with this um in 2025.
Let's just put this in perspective. The
banks have been under a microscope
really since 2008. And so a lot of these
banks and you know uh Brian was around
during that time clearly Jamie was
around during that time. I mean they
have been really dealing with some sharp
you know rhetoric from Washington
regardless of administration you know
for the past you know over 15 years now.
So I think this is nothing new to them.
I think they just take it in stride put
their head down and do the best for
their shareholders to be quite frank and
you know lean on their Washington teams
to improve relations. When it comes to
some of the policies coming out of this
administration, you say the scope and
the speed of regulatory reform is
underappreciated. What's
underappreciated right now?
>> Sure. So, look, the global financial
crisis has essentially gave birth to a
web of capital and liquidity rules,
right? And so it's not necessarily
enough just to untangle one because then
you have a different binding constraint
so to speak that would disallow you from
fully deploying that capital to your
customers. So under this regime what's
been happening is they've been saying
okay we have to fix all these things to
make sure that the banks aren't getting
penalized just because the US economy is
growing. So whether or not it's easing
the stress test and not being super
punitive there, it's easing leverage
rules so that you know you're not
getting penalized for just growing the
size of your balance sheet for example
for deposit taking on riskless
activities or addressing the GI search
charge or the search charge that is on
top of you know all the other capital
rules for the largest banks in the
United States. you know, this um
regulatory
uh agenda appears to be um very much
honed in on really driving change in all
these components which should free up
capital for activity um going forward.
>> So Erica, not all banks are created
equally. We've got different banks on
the screen right now, Morgan Stanley,
Goldman Sachs, Bank of America. You've
got smaller players, regional names.
What are the kind of business models
that you think investors should be
looking to get exposure to with regards
to the changes you're anticipating?
>> The money centers have everything,
right? So, you know, um you we clearly
are going to continue to see um um big
act big activity levels, a pick up in
activity levels in investment banking. I
mean, look at our screens. This has to
be a pretty good trading quarter, you
know, in in the third quarter again,
even though it should be seasonally
slower. Um we just came back from a
conference in Coler, Wisconsin with a
bunch of regional banks and you know
after the big beautiful bill has been
passed um these you know midsize
businesses are starting to feel
confident about you know spending a
little bit more expending a little bit
more in the second half of the year. And
so while they certainly have um you know
more premium valuations than you know
some of the regional banks I think the
biggest bang for your buck continues to
be the money centers. Erica, appreciate
your reaction. Thanks for joining us.
Erica Njarin there of UPS on the
financials and what we heard from the
president just yesterday.
>> It was so interesting. I think we heard
about the president yesterday. He was
clearly annoyed with Goldman Sachs's
research team at that economic report.
But this is less than two weeks ago. He
sat down with David Solomon and why
Jonathan potentially the bank might play
a role for an IPO of Fanny and Freddy.
So these banks when it comes to maybe
more I M&A deals down the line IPOs
deregulation they like what they see out
of policy out of Washington but in lie
of that sometimes they have to take you
know some mocking from the president of
United States
>> look the juryy's still out on the data
we'll get more of it telling me where
we're going to be in a few months time I
don't think anybody can at this point
and Goldman's making a fair and honest
forecast about where they think we'll be
and we'll see if we get there
>> they're putting some numbers into models
saying right now the consumer is
basically getting hit 22% of of the
tariff impact, but that is going to
grow. But when you look at corporate
America, and you've been talking about
the margin compression we've seen, at
some point, corporate America is going
to have to pass that along somehow.
They're not going to be able to
consistently absorb this.
>> Up next on the program, we'll get the
views of Tom Porcelli of PGM fixed
income following Treasury Secretary
Scott Benson's comments to us. The rate
should be 150 to 175 basis points lower.
Plus, Danny Burer with your morning
movers and pressure in the energy space
from New York. This is blimp.
[Music]
The opening about 16 minutes away.
Equities doing okay, up by 0.2% on the
S&P with your morning movers. Let's
cross over to Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Starting with the LNG Major
Venture Global. Shares are rallying this
morning, up more than 12 1.5%. It was in
an arbitration battle with Shell. The
accusation was that it was selling into
the spot market at the detriment to some
other LG contracts it had with Shell and
others. But Venture Global has won that
for those shares moving higher this
morning. Little bit of sellside action.
Palunteer getting Palo Alto rather
networks getting an upgrade from
Deutsche Bank saying that despite the
more recent selloff that the business
seems to be humming along nicely. This
is actually the second upgrade it's
gotten this week. was Piper Sandler
earlier. So those shares up just under
2%. Finally wrapping things up with a
little bit of earnings. After the bell
yesterday, we heard from Coreweave. This
market will punish and reward others
depending on what their businesses with
how much they spend on AI. And Coree has
been spending an incredible amount doing
acquisitions, funding data centers. It
is a market that did not like that spend
despite them talking about the immense
amount of AI demand. Still higher cost
mean shares down 9 and a3% this morning.
John,
>> brutal. Danny, thanks for the update.
Appreciate it. The opening bell about 60
minutes away. Danny, thank you. Another
read on inflation still on deck this
week. We're looking ahead to PPI with
Michael McKe. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. This should be
interesting because we'll see if there
are any kind of intermediate good uh
tariff increases that are going to show
up in the data. There is a feeling that
we are going to see some inflation there
compared with what we got in June when
prices were flat. uh small rise for both
the headline and the core and the core x
trade if you use that as your core uh
210% and that'll push the headline rate
up on a year-over-year basis and uh
leave the core x trade year-over-year
flat but would show that there are more
issues for the Fed to deal with and
inflation is still out there. I want to
make that clear because if you look at
and this is compiled by the Atlanta Fed.
If you look at the various different uh
consumer inflation numbers uh posted by
various Fed banks, you can see that uh
their current rates are all up around 3%
or higher. And if you try to benchmark
that to the PCE based uh 2% target that
the Fed has, you can see how far they
have to go to get there. So, the Fed is
not going to be a slam dunk for any kind
of rate cut. Uh, one other note, the
Cleveland Fed compiles the seven rules
that most monetary policy analysts use
in terms of what the Fed funds rate
should be. None of them basically under
4%. So, the Fed is a long way from Scott
Besson's 150 to 175 basis points.
>> Mike McKe, thank you for the reaction.
Appreciate it. I think we're joined
around the table by another Yankees fan.
Is that right?
>> As soon as I saw the mug, I I said, "Why
don't you just
>> I was trying to hide it cuz I'm pretty
sure Scott Besset, Treasure Secretary,
is a Red Sox fan." So, I didn't want to
I don't want to antagonize him, you
know, on during this entire interview.
>> Tom Porcelia of PGM joins us around the
table. Tom, good morning.
>> Good to see you.
>> It's good to see you. Let's talk about
the state of this economy. Let's start
with the labor market first. Where are
we? I I mean, you know, I've been on
this program many times for many months
saying there are all these cracks
forming and and that uh as is true today
as it was, you know, sort of six months
ago when we were driving that point
home. So, uh nothing has changed for us
in that regard. In fact, what I would
say is the payroll report, the much
maligned recent payroll report, um to me
that was just a manifestation of all the
other things that had been going on
prior. So, I I don't I I wouldn't we
weren't all shocked and bothered by it.
Um I think it was just sort of revealing
what was already in place.
>> Let's stay on payrolls. Yeah. step down
clearly very obvious we've gone from a
decent clip of gains to something closer
to stall speed I want to understand from
your perspective whether you think that
cementss this idea that we've seen a
cyclical turn or whether it's more
evidence of a structural shift something
developing on the supply side
>> yeah so we think that things are slowing
down right I mean I think that's an
important idea like we don't think we're
like cyclally we're about to slip into a
recession um instead what we've been
saying is we're in this sort of muddle
through backdrop and we would define
that as sort of like you know 1%ish kind
of growth 1 to one and a half% growth um
and so that report is actually very
consistent with with our view in that
regard. So when I think about Fed
response function, we actually think the
Fed they are supposed to cut uh I mean I
don't think that's for us that's been
our long-standing call that they would
start cutting uh again in September. Uh
and so we feel we feel good about that
overall.
>> So how well sorry we feel good about the
call overall? I mean things slowing down
is never obviously a step.
>> You feel good about the call of the Fed
cutting in September. Yeah. The Treasury
Secretary is calling for 50 basis
points.
>> Yeah. So look, do I have sympathy for
that idea? The answer to that is tell me
what the payroll report is going to look
like, you know, in a month from now or
whatever it is a couple of weeks from
now because I think you're going to need
evidence for that. If it's just a sort
of another another really soft report
like we saw, I don't know if that's the
evidence enough to go 50. Um, but you
know, to me it's it's sort of semantics
in some way because whether they go 50
or 25, I think they're they're pulling
forward a lot of the cuts that they sort
of were that the Fed was pricing in over
the balance of the next year and a half.
>> If they go 50 though, what signal does
that mean for how the Fed thinks of the
economy right now? Yeah, I think it I
think it really drives home that look
the Fed already and I I I feel like a
lot of us, me included, I feel like a
lot of us forget this, the Fed already
had cuts teed up, right? They already
were expecting two cuts this year. So,
they were expecting a softer economic
backdrop. Um, and so I think in that
context, it's just very in keeping with
what they're what they're viewing. Show
me another really poor payroll report
and I'll give you the evidence for, hey,
maybe they need to do more. But I think
for right now, it's it's pretty
consistent.
>> We get one more payroll report. I've got
no idea what's in it. We'll get that on
September 5th. A week later,
>> don't know. They don't tell you now.
>> Absolutely clueless. The BLS shares
nothing with me.
>> A week later, we'll get the CPI report.
I want to finish on inflation and turn
to that side of the dual mandate.
Limited tariff pass through relative to
what was expected. Yeah.
>> Do you think it remains that way in the
months to come?
>> No, actually. Um I I think you're seeing
limited pass through now because
companies did a really smart thing. They
built inventories in a really meaningful
way. Um so that's sort of buffering the
the sort of the flow of the the the
tariff inflationary impulse into
inflation. But I'll give you one really
interesting thing to think about. Um,
you know, it's funny. We're having this
conversation about our payrolls
calculator, right? Obviously, we can
have the same conversation about
inflation. Um, inflation, there are so
many flaws in the calculation of
inflation. So, if I look at um, if I
swap out something as simple, well, it's
not that it's so simple because it's a
big component, but if I swap out OEER
for, you know, sort of a a market
measure of rent like apartment list,
inflation's running at a 1% pace right
now.
I mean I I I think all of this I think
that to me is the right way of thinking
about what the starting point for
>> isn't that giving you a lead on what you
think ultimately is going to happen with
service inflation down the road.
>> Yeah. So so I I think from our
perspective what it means is that you
are going to get this lift higher in
inflation but you know you so what so
you lift toward toward the target as
opposed to being above target now and
going even further above target. I mean,
I think if you look at inflation with
just making some very modest and I think
very reasonable adjustments, you
probably wind up getting back to target.
>> This situation then is not something
that you think will constrain the Fed's
ability to reduce rates and respond to
softness in the labor.
>> Yeah. I I I don't I mean I think the Fed
has the right line on this. I think it
is going to be a temporary sort of
one-time shift high.
>> Well, you say the Fed has the right
line. Some Fed individuals at the Fed
have the right line. I don't know where
the whole committee is. Where's the
whole committee on this?
>> Yeah. I mean, and as you would expect,
there's just a divergence of views, I
think, seemingly at this point, but it
does seem that that the sort of the
momentum is drifting toward people
having the right line, which is to say
cutting in September.
>> If we're not going to see the full
tariff impact, say, till 2026, can you
see a scenario where the Fed is cutting
at the end of this year, maybe starting
in September, and then having to think
about hikes next year?
>> Yeah. So, so this is a really important
idea in the context of this is not
COVID, right? I mean, I think people are
looking at this sort of this this drift
that we're going to see uh um higher in
inflation. Um and I think that, you
know, they're scarred. I think in
including Fed officials, specifically
PAL, I think they're called transitory
>> 100%. So, I think they're scarred
because of the whole, you know, let's
call it transitory mistake. Um but it's
this is not that. Um you know, we didn't
ply people with mountains of cash
through a helicopter drop of money. We
didn't create a pent-up demand scenario
by shutting down an otherwise really
healthy economy and then turning back
on. So I think the the setup is so
different,
>> right?
>> Tom Porcelli, it's good to see you, sir.
Appreciate your time. Thank you for
being here. Tom Porcelli of PGM Fixed
Income. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yhira, who has more. Hey, Yah.
>> Hi, John. Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant says the US is open to
discussing the use of Nvidia chips with
China. Speaking on our show to you and
an Maria in the last hour, Bessant said
Chinese tech is piggybacking on the US
and that revenue from the arrangement
President Trump struck with Nvidia will
be used to pay down the national debt.
Meanwhile, Harvard University signals
it's willing to pay $500 million for
workforce training programs as part of
its settlement with the White House to
restore $2 billion in frozen federal
funds. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the administration is open to
having colleges pay for penalties in
form of contributions. They have not
agreed to a final deal. And tropical
storm Aaron is strengthening in the
Atlantic and could become a category 3
storm by the end of this week by this
weekend. Aaron is currently moving south
of the Caribbean but is forecast to turn
north and miss the Bahamas and US coast.
We'll see. That's your brief. John,
>> fingers crossed. Yara, thank you.
Appreciate the update. Up next on the
program, we'll set you up for the day
ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with
Sebajger Japer of Sockje with Treasuries
gaining as traders lock in a September
interest rate reduction. And this
administration would like to see a whole
lot more. Your equity market positive on
the day, on the session, on the year, on
the year so far. We're looking at a
series of all-time highs again this
morning as we count you down to the
opening about 50 minutes away. Equities
high by 0.26% on the S&P. on the NASDAQ
up by 0.3. From New York, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
We're working on the big list right now.
They're going to be private sector
names. So, we had a series or a list of
of current Fed members. I'm going to
cast a wide net 10 10 11 people and then
uh there'll be a group of us who are
meeting with them and we want to talk
about monetary policy. We want to talk
about uh regulatory policy which is very
very important. That was US Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson joining the
program a little bit earlier on this
morning making the case for a long list
of people, a long list of candidates for
the Fed chair job. Didn't seem like
they're in a rush to pin that down to
one name.
>> No, it doesn't seem like they're in a
rush at all. And he's going to have this
very long process, but him and his team
will interview these people on the list
about 10 11 names he talked about and
then they're going to whittle it down
and have then bigger conversations with
those individuals in the present. I
imagine it's only going to be two or
three names. I have an idea that they
know the two or three people they're
putting in front of the president. But
also remember this is optics. This looks
good for them to cast a wide net, even
individuals that were promoted under the
Biden administration.
>> We talked about this yesterday. You make
the process look credible. I think the
Treasury Secretary is doing a decent job
of that right now because that's a very
credible list of names. Steven Myron is
another name in the mix. We just heard
from the Treasury Secretary that Steven
Myron that term at the Fed if he's
confirmed is going to be a short one.
It's going to be temporary. So this is
different than what the Treasury
Secretary has been saying the past few
days even. It does look like Steve Meyer
is not staying at the Fed. So they
potentially will have two seats next
year. So they need to first decide who
they're going to be Fed chair. And as
long as Powell leaves and they're going
to get that second seat as well. So
potentially some of these names you're
hearing may get on the FOMC, but maybe
not for the chair position. You know
what, Jonathan? If you want to get on
that list,
>> 50 basis points.
>> That's all you got to do. I
>> I know the game. I know. If you want to
get on that list,
>> Yeah.
>> join the program. 50 basis points. Call
for a 50 basis point cut, you're in the
mix.
>> That seems to be the bar. Call for a 50
base point basis point cut, you're in
the mix. Or potentially, I think
Governor Logan is voting next year.
Maybe they're priming her to make sure
she lines up with the administration
wants to see next year. Put her on the
list.
>> 45 minutes away from the opening bout.
Equities at alltime highs and adding to
it. Up another 0.3% on the S&P, up by.36
on the NASDAQ 100. On the Russell, up by
0.8. Those calls for interest rate cuts
adding to the move at the front end of
the curve. The two-year down by four
basis points, 369. At the longer end of
the curve, we've had six consecutive
days of slightly higher bond yields.
This morning, lower by three basis
points. 42539 on 10. That's the price
action. Here's the trading diary for the
week ahead. At 9:00 a.m. Eastern time, a
call between President Trump and
European leaders and Ukrainian President
Vladimir Zilinski. At 4 p.m. Eastern
time, the president signing executive
orders. Looking ahead to Thursday, PPI
and another round of jobless claims. On
Friday, President Trump and Russian
President Vladimir Putin meeting in
Alaska. Plus, we get some data in the
morning. Retail sales and new Mitch
consumer sentiment. You'll be at that
meeting going into the weekend. What can
we achieve?
>> Well, I think for that meeting, the best
case scenario, especially since the
president has already talked down high
expectations. He says, "I'm trying to
feel this out." Yesterday the press
secretary Caroline Levit said the
president will be in listening mode. The
best case scenario is that Vladimir
Putin agrees to a process to end this
war and there are larger discussions to
make sure Russia doesn't invade Ukraine
again. Ukraine has long-term security
guarantees if this meeting does not go
well. I got the sense from the Treasury
Secretary that they are prepared to
become much more aggressive when it
comes to sanctions.
>> Can we talk about secondary sanctions?
as that interview was progressing had
some push back from people I guess with
relations to what's developing in India
and their response to the situation in
Russia is as follows if we can't buy
energy from Russia and we face secondary
sanctions why are the Europeans able to
buy Russian energy why is it a different
story for them
>> well that's a great question and also I
think even more importantly the biggest
buyer of Russian crude forget India
forget the European Union the biggest
buyer of Russian crude is China why is
China still allowing to buy Russian
crude, Russian commodities in general.
Basically, that is the only way Putin is
able to fund this war. If you cut that
off, of course, we will say time and
time again, sanctions usually just
create new markets and then it's harder
to track. But if you really start going
after the crude going to China, you can
really put pressure on Vladimir Putin.
>> Big question. Treasury Secretary gave a
nod to it. Can he get the Europeans on
board to do the same thing?
>> It it sounded like weed. It sounded like
when he went for the hard questions with
the Europeans, which are still buying
Russian energy, even though, come on,
they've scaled back a ton, but they've
been enslaved to Russian energy. It's
how Germany, you've been talking about
for years, is able to have this
manufacturing base, cheap Russian
energy. He said they all looked at their
shoes, went very quiet. Let's stick with
the economy. Zumatra Japra of SOGN
writing the following. While the rising
goods inflation was muted, the
broad-based increase in services
inflation is concerning, though not
enough to prevent the Fed from raising
interest rates. Sabbat joins us around
the table. Sabbat, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's just start with September.
>> You're looking for that cut 25 basis
points.
>> I think 25 basis points is fully priced
and the Fed never disappoints. So to me
that that seems uh like a reasonable
scenario. The thing that I'm just not on
board with is that 50 basis point cut or
three cuts for this year. To me, that
seems like a a you know, a lot. you are
not in the running to become the Fed
chair. Continue.
>> I'm definitely not in the running and
I'm not trying to. Um, but you know, if
you look at the you know, the comparison
that's always been made is between this
year and this September and and last
year when they cut 50 basis points, it's
a very different environment in in many
respects. Last year, you know, interest
rates were between 5 and a quarter and 5
1/2%. So, policy was extraordinarily
restrictive. Now, it's kind of
moderately restrictive or modestly
restrictive. And then you also have an
environment where inflation is is high
and sticky and it's not clear that
inflation's actually uh you know it's
just in my view just starting to feed
through all of the tariffs are starting
to feed through into inflation. It's
going to take a lot longer for inflation
to actually peak this year. So I think
in this environment the Fed is going to
be somewhat careful. We're sort of in a
stagflation light environment. So I
think caution is warranted.
>> Two words you used inflation high and
sticky. high above target. What makes it
sticky? Just take some time to explain
to us what is in inflation right now,
the source of inflation that you think
is sticky.
>> I mean, rents have always been sticky.
That's that's been the case for the last
several years. And now you're starting
to see that it's not just goods
inflation because I think that the
market was a little shortsighted in
thinking that tariffs is going to feed
through only to goods inflation. Now
you're starting to see that the that
gains are much more broad-based. So,
it's not just goods inflation, but also
services inflation. And in that sort of
environment, it's not clear to me that
the Fed should really jump in and start
cutting rates aggressively. Also, it's
not clear to me who's really absorbing
the pass through from prices. Is it
corporations? Maybe initially it's just
corporations, but over time, I think
it's going to be the consumer that's
going to bear the brunt of it. So, we've
yet to see that feed through into CPI in
a meaningful way. And then there's all
this noise around the tariff rate
itself. you know, it goes up one day,
comes down another day. We think that
the average tariff rate is going to be
somewhere between 15 and 20%. That's a
pretty big number and it's it's it's the
consumer I think ultimately is going to
bear a brunt of it.
>> Well, it was the service prices that
propelled the core yesterday. Airlines,
dental, medical prices going up. Is that
these companies absorbing some of the
tariffs and then passing it on when in
services?
>> It seems to be that way. I think that
there are certain sectors of the service
service sector economy where I don't
think that you know that the the
corporations are going to be absor be
able to absorb all the costs. Grocery
for instance it's a very low margin
business. I don't see that you know
where you know grocerers starting to
absorb those costs. And you're also
going to see an environment where um you
know initially yes it's going to be the
corporations corporate profit margins
are still relatively healthy. they're
going to be able to weather that that
the the uh the margin compression over
time when corporate profit margins come
under pressure. They're going to be a
lot more careful about not just p you
know passing those passing through those
price increases but also on the
employment side. So that's when it gets
a little bit tricky. John and I were
just talking about what is going on in
Alaska this meeting in Anchorage that
will have a lot to do with potentially
the direction of travel for oil. How
important is it for not just this
administration but this Fed to
continuously a deceleration in energy
prices? Yesterday CPI 1.1 decrease in
energy, 2.2% drop in gasoline. I think
it is important. I think we're energy
independent. I'm not that concerned
about these negotiations and the rise in
energy prices uh feeding through to
headline CPI. Headline CPI is actually
surprised to the downside with with
yesterday's number. Uh, and you know, to
me again, it's it's the tariff impact
and the delayed tariff impact that I've
been paying more attention to on the
inflation side.
>> When do you think we'll have a fuller
picture of that impact? probably in the
next six to eight months even
>> given the fact that you know you're
you're you're seeing a lot of back and
forth. And you know for the most part it
feels to me like you know the the uh
consumers right now are well positioned
to absorb the higher prices because
they're employed. Once you start seeing
a crack in the job market, that's when
you're going to start seeing uh uh
demand destruction really play out in in
in a big way. Can you rule out hikes?
>> Pardon me.
>> Can you rule out hikes at this point?
>> I think so. I think we're just not in an
environment where the Fed is going to be
willing to hike because you're looking
at GDP for this year somewhere between,
you know, maybe 1 to 1 and a.5%. So
that's lower than what they had
anticipated coming into this year.
You're starting to see the job market
slow down. You know, I'm not saying that
the job market's really starting to
crack. the job market is in stasis but
at some point it's you know the the
biases towards you know the uh a decline
in or further deterioration I should say
in the labor market in this sort of
environment I think that the Fed is not
going to be willing to hike rates
>> it's an odd situation at the moment that
a lot of people believe that we're going
to get these aggressive interest rate
cuts 25 in September others making a
case for 50 and yet we've got this
rangebound tenure just sort of going up
and down between 420 and 475 whatever
the upper end of the range might be how
do you explain that at the moment what's
going on further out along curve.
>> I think that between the 2-year and the
10year, I think the yields are actually
going to be quite rangebound. The two
years fully pricing in five cuts for the
next year. So, the front end is probably
going to be between by the front end I
mean the two-year is going to be
somewhere between 3 and a half and 4%.
The 10 year probably stays between 4 and
4 and a half. The third year is much
more of a global instrument at this
point. And to me, my concern is that if
the Fed cuts rates or even cuts rates
aggressively, the yield curve is going
to steep and the and the long yields are
actually going to go higher.
>> It's exactly what I spoke to the
secretary about. Why keep issuing a
30-year Treasury at the moment? Because
you're outsourcing a lot of the
borrowing costs of America to what's
happening in Japan, to what's happening
in Europe, to deficit spending in
Germany. What's the purpose of issuing
that long bond at the moment?
>> Actually, that's why they're not
increasing coupon issuance sizes. If
anything, the tariff revenues are
delaying the timing of when they will
potentially when they will need to
potentially increase coupon issuance
sizes. To me, that increase in coupon
issuance sizes is going to come mid next
year. So, they could continue to keep
coupon issuance sizes stable, continue
to increase bill issuance sizes, and
that will put a lid on the rise in long
end yields. Term premiums are going to
be contained because of that.
>> When does this become a buy for you at
the long end of the curve?
I think that the long end of the curve
is a is a tough call to me. The
steepener seems like a much more of a
convincing trade. I know it's a very
consensus view,
>> super consensus.
>> And you know the other other trade
that's been somewhat disappointing as
well is that inflation expectations are
very very contained. So it's not like
the market is thinking that tariffs is
going to mean higher inflation
expectations. The the survey based
measures are coming down. Break evens
are staying very rangebound. So to me in
this sort of environment it feels like a
bit of the the the 10 year as well as
the 30 is going to be somewhat stuck in
a range.
>> Sebatra good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Sebra there of stock gem
with bond yield to across the curve this
morning. The 10 year down by four basis
points. Coming up tomorrow we'll catch
up with George Canas of MUFG son of
Desire Franklin Templeton Tracy
Mcmillion of Wells Fargo and Scott
Croner of City who recently upgraded his
target on the S&P 500. From New York
City, thank you for choosing Bloomberg
TV. This was blimp surveillance.
[Music]
>> Day six at the Cincinnati Open. Carlos
Alcarez fought through the heat and
Hammad Majedovic to reach the fourth
round. A single break in each set was
enough for the Spaniard, while 38
unforced errors told the story of the
match for the Serb. Alcarez is now on a
13match win streak at Mast's 10,000
events after lifting the trophies in
Monte Carlo and Rome.